A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Tuesday, July 30, 2024, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:51 p.m., and on Wednesday, July 31, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:49 p.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on June 13 and 14, 2024. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.076 to 0.083 percent. Meanwhile, regarding purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), CP, and corporate bonds, the Bank conducted the purchases in accordance with the decisions made at the March 2024 meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments had been at low levels. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around 0.075 to 0.080 percent; the general collateral (GC) repo rate had been in the range of around 0 to 0.1 percent, albeit with temporary fluctuations. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was more or less unchanged over the intermeeting period; it had increased, mainly due to expectations for improvement in corporate profits, and had then declined, reflecting a decrease in U.S. stock prices and the correction of the past depreciation of the yen. Yields on 10-year JGBs had risen slightly, mainly against the background of market participants' views on the future conduct of monetary policy. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets had seen something of a pause in their improvement but remained at improved levels compared to around the end of 2023. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against both the U.S. dollar and the euro over the intermeeting period. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. The U.S. economy had grown moderately, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by past policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies had started to bottom out. The Chinese economy had improved moderately, partly due to government support, despite the continued effects of adjustments in the real estate market. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as signs of a pick-up had been seen in exports. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to keep growing moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of past policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. long-term interest rates had declined slightly over the intermeeting period; they had temporarily risen reflecting heightened vigilance against the possibility of a future deterioration in fiscal conditions, but had subsequently fallen, mainly due to price indicators being lower than market expectations. European long-term interest rates had also declined slightly over the intermeeting period, fluctuating in line with U.S. interest rates. U.S. stock prices were unchanged over the intermeeting period; they had risen, with the further spread of moves to factor in possible policy interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve in the future, and had then fallen, mainly due to corporate results of some high-tech firms being weaker than market expectations. European stock prices were more or less unchanged, constrained by heightened uncertainties regarding the political situation in France. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had been more or less flat, and crude oil prices had recently fallen. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, it was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Exports had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, they were likely to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a pick-up in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, it was likely to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, it was projected to return to an uptrend, reflecting the pick-up in global demand for IT-related goods and other developments in domestic and external demand. Corporate profits had improved. Business sentiment had stayed at a favorable level. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits followed an improving trend. Private consumption had been resilient despite the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had declined for the January-March quarter of 2024, mainly due to the effects of suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. It had then increased for the April-May period as automobile sales picked up. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption since June seemed to have been resilient, although an intensified thriftiness among households that reflected price rises continued to be pointed out by some firms. While consumer sentiment continued to improve until recently, it was currently deteriorating somewhat compared with a while ago. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to increase moderately, partly due to the effects of the government's economic measures and with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, it was likely to continue increasing moderately as employee income continued to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees had also been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly, reflecting the recovery in economic activity and the results of the 2024 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. The year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was projected to gradually turn positive despite the effects of energy prices. As for prices, commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI, adjusted for the effects of seasonal changes in electricity rates) relative to three months earlier had risen to around 1.5 percent. This reflected factors such as moves to pass on increases in raw material costs, personnel expenses, and other costs to prices, as well as a scaling back of the government's measures to reduce the household burden of higher electricity and gas charges. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high at around 3 percent recently, mainly on the back of the rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 2.5 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, although the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food), while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, the rate of increase was projected to be pushed up through fiscal 2025 by factors such as a dissipation of the effects of the government's measures pushing down CPI inflation. Meanwhile, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that the output gap would improve and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with a virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period, underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased but remained at low levels. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 2.5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been at around 1.5 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly owing to increases in interest on loans, as well as income from fees and commissions. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks and banks had been firm on the back of an increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels. With regard to the financial cycle, of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, 11 showed neither an overheating nor a contraction of financial activities, and three -- including one indicating stock prices -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Regarding the financial gap, the positive gap remained narrow compared with a while ago. Although stock prices had risen somewhat rapidly and valuations of some properties in the real estate market seemed to have been relatively high, there had been no overheating of financial activities overall so far. However, it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether financial activities would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that exports had been more or less flat. Members shared the view that business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend with corporate profits improving and business sentiment staying at a favorable level. Members concurred that private consumption had been resilient despite the impact of price rises and other factors. One member noted that the recent weakness in private consumption was partly attributable to a fall in the number of automobiles sold following a decline in automobile production. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 2.5 percent recently. They shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate. They continued that, as corporate profits followed an improving trend and accommodative financial conditions provided support, business fixed investment was likely to continue on an increasing trend. Members agreed that, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to increase moderately. Members shared the view that employment was likely to continue rising, but the pace of increase was projected to moderate gradually. They agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be at around 2.5 percent for fiscal 2024 and then be at around 2 percent for fiscal 2025 and 2026. Members shared the view that risks to economic activity were skewed to the upside for fiscal 2025. They agreed that risks to prices were skewed to the upside for fiscal 2024 and 2025. Members shared the recognition that it was notable that, with firms' behavior shifting more toward raising wages and prices recently, exchange rate developments were, compared to the past, more likely to affect prices. Many members shared the recognition that, given that the year-on-year rate of change in import prices had turned positive again, upside risks to prices required attention in conducting monetary policy. Members shared the recognition that the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs reported by the staff was well balanced between predictability and flexibility and was therefore appropriate. Members discussed monetary policy based on the above assessment of economic and financial developments as well as the staff reports on the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs. Members shared the view that, considering this situation, it was appropriate for the Bank to raise the policy interest rate to around 0.25 percent and adjust the degree of monetary accommodation from the perspective of sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target of 2 percent. Many members shared the recognition that real interest rates were expected to remain significantly negative even if the Bank raised the policy interest rate slightly, and accommodative financial conditions would continue to support economic activity. Members then concurred that, in the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs, it was also important to allow enough flexibility to support stability in the JGB markets. One member expressed the opinion that it was also necessary to pay attention to the impact that price rises due to the yen's depreciation had on costs for small and medium-sized firms and on household sentiment. One member noted that, given factors such as financial regulations, if the Bank reduced its purchase amount of JGBs at a pace that was significantly faster than the pace indicated in the staff's proposal, this could intensify upward pressure on interest rates, due to a decline in risk-taking capacity in the market, and in turn create a risk that the reduction plan would bring about strong monetary tightening effects. Members then discussed the guideline for money market operations for the intermeeting period. The discussion on changes to the policy interest rate suggests that future policy needs to be conducted carefully. Due to medium- to long-term inflation expectations not being anchored at 2%, prices remain vulnerable to downside risks. It is necessary to ensure that interest rate hikes do not excessively raise market expectations. There are high uncertainties regarding the level of the neutral interest rate as the short-term interest rate has not been raised for a long time. It is difficult to set the terminal level of the policy interest rate at the estimated level of the neutral interest rate. It is necessary to pursue a path for the policy interest rate while examining how the economy and prices respond to changes in the short-term interest rate. If a rate cut is to be made, it needs to be done appropriately in response to developments in economic activity and prices. It is necessary to conduct monetary policy appropriately toward achieving the price stability target of 2%. The government expects to make steady progress toward achieving both economic revitalization and fiscal consolidation. The government expects the Bank to conduct monetary policy appropriately toward achieving the price stability target of 2%. The Japanese economy is continuing to recover at a moderate pace, although it recently appears to be pausing. Attention should be paid to the impact of rising prices on households' purchasing power. It is necessary to ensure that a rate hike does not have unexpected effects on financial and capital markets and the real economy. The proposal regarding changes to the policy interest rate was put to a vote, and the Policy Board decided by a majority vote. The policy to encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at 0.25% was decided. It was decided that the interest rate applied to the complementary deposit facility would be set at 0.25%. It was decided that the basic loan rate would be set at 0.5%. It was decided that the interest rates applied to the Funds-Supplying Operation would be set at 0.25%. The plan to reduce the purchase amount of Japanese government bonds was decided unanimously. The amendment to the principal terms and conditions of the complementary deposit facility was decided by a majority vote. The proposal regarding the interest rate hike was put to a vote, and the Policy Board decided by a majority vote. The minutes were approved unanimously.