A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, July 20, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:45 p.m., and on Thursday, July 21, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:57 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on June 16 and 17, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. In addition, it had implemented the relaxation of the terms and conditions for the Securities Lending Facility (SLF) for the CTD issues, in order to ensure stability in the market by easing excessive tightening in supply and demand conditions of Japanese government securities (JGSs) in the repo market. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.007 to minus 0.047 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.087 to minus 0.233 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen from the level observed at the time of the previous meeting, mainly due to buybacks in view of a rise in U.S. stock prices. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar, mainly against the background of the differing direction of monetary policy between the two countries and of dollar purchasing by Japanese importers. It had appreciated against the euro, amid growing concern over a slowdown in the euro area economy that was partly due to the issue of energy supply from Russia. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with some weakness seen in part. Economic activity continued to resume in the United States and Europe while lockdowns and other public health measures had been eased in China. In emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, the resumption of economic activity had become full-fledged. However, with inflationary pressure continuing worldwide, policy rate hikes by central banks in advanced economies had started to put downward pressure on the global economy, and the prolonged impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine had also been exerting downward pressure on the economy, particularly in the euro area. As for the outlook, although overseas economies were expected to be under downward pressure, mainly from the situation surrounding Ukraine, they were likely to continue growing moderately on the whole as the impact of COVID-19 waned. That said, there were high uncertainties for the time being, mainly over the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine, global inflationary pressure, the effects of an acceleration in the pace of policy rate hikes by central banks in advanced economies, and the situation of the pandemic in China. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. Private consumption continued to increase, amid the withdrawal of accumulated savings and with a shift in consumption patterns from goods to services being observed. Housing investment remained at a high level, although signs of deceleration had been seen in reflection of policy rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. While the number of employees continued to rise, the labor market remained tight, with the labor force participation rate recovering at only a moderate pace and the job openings-to-applicants ratio and turnover rates still being high. As for the corporate sector, sentiment kept improving and fixed investment continued to increase. Regarding price developments, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a high increase in the range of 6.0-6.5 percent on a year-on-year basis, mainly due to the effects of tight supply and demand conditions. European economies had recovered as a trend. Despite downward pressure from a rise in energy prices, private consumption had recovered as a trend, particularly for services consumption, on the back of continued resumption of economic activity. With regard to the corporate sector, although sentiment kept improving on the whole and fixed investment had also risen as a trend, indicators of new orders in the manufacturing industry had shown weakness. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of increase in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been high at around 8.5 percent, mainly due to the rise in energy prices. The Chinese economy had started picking up from the state of being pushed down as the impact of strict public health measures to address the spread of COVID-19 had waned. Private consumption had started picking up from a deeply depressed level while such effects as of movement restrictions had eased. As for the corporate sector, exports and production had picked up as corporate activity and the logistics situation had gradually normalized. Fixed asset investment had picked up as a trend, supported in part by infrastructure investment. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole, although some economies had been pushed down by the impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine. The NIEs and the ASEAN economies had recovered because exports continued to increase on the whole, despite some weakness being seen in exports to China, and domestic demand kept improving on the back of progress in the resumption of economic activity. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in advanced economies had declined significantly, mainly due to growing concern over a future economic slowdown, while central banks in these economies had accelerated the pace of policy rate hikes. Stock prices had risen, underpinned by the decline in interest rates. Crude oil prices had fallen, partly reflecting concern over an economic slowdown. In the foreign exchange market, currencies in emerging and commodity-exporting economies, particularly the latter, had depreciated while commodity prices had generally declined. Japan's economy had picked up with the impact of COVID-19 waning, despite being affected by factors such as a rise in commodity prices. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the rise in commodity prices due to factors such as the situation surrounding Ukraine. Exports continued to increase as a trend, but they had been affected by supply-side constraints, and industrial production had been under strong downward pressure due to the effects of such constraints. Developments in real exports by goods were as follows. IT-related exports had recently been affected by constraints on shipments to China caused by the lockdowns, although demand for semiconductors seemed to have been firm. The level of exports of automobile-related goods had decreased, affected by parts procurement difficulties due to the lockdowns in China, in addition to the tight global supply and demand conditions for semiconductors. In contrast, exports of capital goods -- despite declining for those to China -- had been at high levels, supported by steady machinery investment on a global basis and by strong demand for semiconductor production equipment that reflected the expansion in demand for digital-related goods. With regard to the outlook, it was highly likely that exports and industrial production would remain susceptible to supply-side constraints in the short run, mainly because the semiconductor shortage and disruptions in distribution networks due to the lockdowns in China were projected to continue having an impact. Thereafter, they were likely to increase, mainly for automobile-related goods, for which supply-side constraints were expected to wane, and for digital-related goods, which had seen the expansion in global demand. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business sentiment was more or less unchanged. According to the (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan), the diffusion index (DI) for business conditions for all industries and enterprises had deteriorated slightly for the March survey but improved slightly for the June survey. With regard to manufacturing, the DI had deteriorated for two consecutive quarters, against the background of business sentiment of a wide range of manufacturers being affected by raw material cost increases and of supply-side constraints due to the lockdowns in China. On the other hand, the DI for overall nonmanufacturing had improved; while the impact of raw material cost increases had been seen in part, the DIs for industries such as services for individuals, accommodations as well as eating and drinking services, and transport and postal activities had improved clearly with the impact of COVID-19 waning. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole despite being pushed down by the impact of the rise in commodity prices, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear on the back of accommodative financial conditions and the waning of supply-side constraints. Looking at leading indicators of such investment, machinery orders (private sector, excluding orders for ships and those from electric power companies) had increased, albeit with fluctuations, and construction starts (in terms of planned expenses for private and nonresidential construction) had also increased when fluctuations were smoothed out. Looking at the business fixed investment plan in the June 2022, business fixed investment -- including software and research and development (R&D) investments but excluding land purchasing expenses, for all industries and enterprises including financial institutions -- showed a year-on-year rate of increase of 0.9 percent for fiscal 2021. The figure was only slightly positive, mainly due to supply-side constraints on capital goods and the impact of COVID-19. On the other hand, the plan for fiscal 2022 showed that the year-on-year rate of increase in such investment was expected to be 13.5 percent, which would mark a clear increase. Private consumption had increased moderately, particularly for services consumption, with the impact of COVID-19 waning. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased by 2.3 percent for the April-May period relative to the January-March quarter, mainly led by services consumption. By type, services consumption, particularly of dining-out and domestic travel, had increased with the impact of COVID-19 waning. Nondurable goods consumption -- after having been relatively weak, mainly due to a waning of stay-at-home demand, such as for food and daily necessities -- had been firm recently, as seen in an increase in consumption of clothes and personal effects. On the other hand, durable goods consumption had been at a somewhat low level due to downward pressure from supply-side constraints. Recent developments in private consumption based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators suggested that goods consumption had improved, as some effects of supply-side constraints due to the lockdowns in China had started to wane. Services consumption also seemed to have continued on an uptrend. Meanwhile, confidence indicators related to private consumption had deteriorated somewhat, partly reflecting the impact of price rises. Regarding the outlook, private consumption was expected to be affected by rises in prices, mainly of energy and food. However, on the back of improvement in the employment situation, it was projected to continue increasing because pent-up demand was likely to materialize, supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed gradually while public health was being protected. The employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey, that of non-regular employees remained at a relatively low level, mainly in the face-to-face services industry. However, the number of regular employees had increased moderately, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced a severe labor shortage. The employment conditions DI in the June continued to show an expanding trend in net "insufficient." Total cash earnings per employee, particularly scheduled cash earnings, had increased moderately, reflecting the pick-up in overall economic activity. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to increase along with economic improvement. In real terms, however, the year-on-year rate of change in employee income was highly likely to be negative for the time being, reflecting price rises. As for prices, international commodity prices remained at high levels due to factors such as the situation surrounding Ukraine, but had declined recently, mainly reflecting concern over a global economic slowdown. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier remained clearly positive, reflecting developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 2 percent, mainly due to the rises in energy and food prices. That in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) had been in the range of 1.0-1.5 percent when excluding temporary factors such as the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations had risen. Specifically, short-term inflation expectations had increased clearly on the whole. Medium- to long-term expectations had also risen moderately. Firms' inflation expectations both for general prices and output prices in the June had risen for all time horizons -- namely, one year ahead, three years ahead, and five years ahead. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase toward the end of 2022 due to the rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. Thereafter, the rate of increase was expected to decelerate because the positive contribution of the rise in energy prices to the CPI was likely to wane. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase toward the end of 2022 due to the rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole, as precautionary demand for liquidity due to the impact of COVID-19 had generally subsided, although demand for working capital had been seen, reflecting raw material cost increases. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. Those for corporate bonds also had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. The environment for external funding was still accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions continued on an improving trend, including for small and medium-sized firms, on the back of the pick-up in the economy, although weakness remained in some segments. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had decelerated compared with a while ago, being positive at around 4 percent recently. That in the money stock also had been positive, in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to the loans outstanding being at a high level and to an increase in net income from fees and commissions. Their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole, although factors such as loan-loss provisioning due to the impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine had been seen. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks and banks had also been firm, mainly owing to the amount outstanding of loans related to COVID-19 being at a high level. Their credit costs had been at low levels. With regard to the financial cycle, of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, four -- including one indicating the amount of financial institutions' credit relative to real economic activity -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Nevertheless, this was mainly the result of financial institutions responding to demand for working capital, particularly by firms, which had increased due to the impact of COVID-19, and therefore did not signal any overheating of financial activities. It was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether debt repayment would proceed along with recovery in corporate profits and the amount of credit extended by financial institutions would return to a level consistent with real economic activity. Members shared the view that market sentiment remained cautious because there had been growing concern over a slowdown in the global economy, with acceleration in the pace of reduction in monetary accommodation, mainly in the United States and Europe, reflecting continued high inflation globally. One member pointed out that, in the context of the global economy, market attention had started to focus not only on inflation but also on a recession that could be caused by containing inflation. A different member noted that prices of commodities, including grains, had declined recently, due in part to concern over a slowdown in the global economy. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with some weakness seen in part. One member was of the view that the economies continued to see strong private demand supported by household savings that had accumulated during the pandemic, although it was taking time for supply-side constraints to be resolved. Some members pointed out that the prolonged situation surrounding Ukraine, the global rise in inflation, and policy rate hikes by central banks in major economies had exerted downward pressure on the global economy. Members shared the view that the U.S. economy had recovered. One member said that, despite high prices pushing down real income, private consumption maintained its high level, accompanied by the shift in consumption patterns from goods to services. On the other hand, a different member noted that signs of a slowdown had started to be observed in the housing market against the background of the rise in interest rates. Many members stated that it was necessary to bear in mind that the U.S. economy could decelerate by more than expected due to the acceleration in the pace of policy rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Members shared the view that European economies had recovered as a trend. Many members expressed the recognition that the effects of the rise in energy prices and supply-side constraints, both stemming from the prolonged situation surrounding Ukraine, had been observed in these economies. A few of these members pointed out that attention should be paid to whether constraints on or disruptions in economic activity would intensify in economies that were shifting from dependency on energy resources from Russia. Members agreed that the Chinese economy had started picking up from the state of being pushed down. Some members commented that the lockdowns in Shanghai had been lifted and the resumption of economic activity had progressed, but voiced concern over the resurgence of COVID-19 in some parts of the country while the zero-COVID policy remained in place. A few members noted that attention was warranted not only on the course of the zero-COVID policy but also on other factors, such as adjustments in the real estate market and deterioration in the employment situation. Members shared the recognition that emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole. One member was of the view that commodity-exporting economies had been firm, and that the NIEs and the ASEAN economies were also expected to recover. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Many members expressed the view that the impact of COVID-19 on corporate financing had been waning; this was suggested by the fact that firms' financial positions had improved as a trend -- including those of small and medium-sized firms in the face-to-face services industry, which is susceptible to the impact of COVID-19 -- and that the amount outstanding of loans provided through the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing had decreased steadily. One of these members noted that, at present, no particular problems had arisen in terms of firms' financial positions, especially their working capital, and that the number of bankruptcies had been at a low level. Based on the above deliberations on economic and financial conditions abroad and financial conditions in Japan, members discussed the state of Japan's economic activity and prices. With regard to economic activity, members shared the view that Japan's economy had picked up with the impact of COVID-19 waning, despite being affected by factors such as the rise in commodity prices. Some members pointed out that, with the economy on its way to recovery from the pandemic, it had been under downward pressure due to an outflow of income from Japan caused by commodity prices remaining high and to supply-side constraints. One of these members noted that the downward pressure from supply-side constraints had become more prolonged than expected -- which reflected the impact of the lockdowns in China, together with the semiconductor shortage since 2021 -- and had affected not only exports but also business fixed investment and durable goods consumption. Some members, including these members, expressed the recognition that, despite being under downward pressure, Japan's economy had picked up, particularly in terms of consumption; these developments were roughly in line with the scenario presented in the April 2022 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (hereafter the Outlook Report). As for exports and production, members agreed that exports continued to increase as a trend but had been affected by supply-side constraints, and that industrial production had been under strong downward pressure due to the effects of such constraints. Some members expressed the view that supply-side constraints stemming mainly from the semiconductor shortage had affected a wide range of sectors, including the automobile sector. Members shared the recognition that business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. Some members said that the June also indicated that firms seemed to have become increasingly active in their fixed investment stance. On this point, one of these members pointed out that firms' expectations for future sales growth might have been rising. Members agreed that private consumption had increased moderately, particularly for services consumption, with the impact of COVID-19 waning. One member commented that the recovery in private consumption had been supported by pent-up demand for the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries in particular, as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health was being protected. On this basis, the member also referred to the point that the rises in prices of daily necessities such as food and energy had led to deterioration in consumer sentiment. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 2 percent, mainly due to the rises in energy and food prices. One member said that various indicators for capturing the underlying trend in the CPI continued to exhibit a moderate rise. Some members pointed out that price hikes by firms had been observed in a wider range of items. One of these members expressed the view that a change might have arisen in the conventional mindset among firms toward raising prices. Members concurred that inflation expectations had risen. One member noted that the shape of the distribution of firms' responses on medium- to long-term inflation expectations in the June had changed; the degree of concentration at around 0 percent had declined considerably while the tail in positive territory had thickened. In formulating the July 2022 Outlook Report, members discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's economic activity. They concurred that, toward the middle of the projection period, Japan's economy was likely to recover -- with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning and with support from an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures -- although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the rise in commodity prices due to factors such as the situation surrounding Ukraine. Some members expressed the view that, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning, economic recovery supported by pent-up demand was likely to continue for the time being. Members shared the recognition that, from the middle of the projection period, the economy was projected to continue growing at a pace above its potential growth rate as a virtuous cycle from income to spending intensified gradually. One member said that, although pent-up demand was likely to run out from fiscal 2023 onward, the virtuous cycle from income to spending was expected to intensify during that time. Members concurred that overseas economies were expected to continue recovering on the whole toward the middle of the projection period, despite downward pressure from factors such as the situation surrounding Ukraine. They also shared the view that, thereafter, these economies were projected to continue growing moderately. Members agreed that Japan's exports and production were likely to increase, mainly for automobile- and digital-related goods, due in part to a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Members concurred that the uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear as accommodative financial conditions provided support and supply-side constraints waned. One member said that planned investments, for which implementation had been postponed due to the pandemic, were expected to take place. Members shared the view that, from the middle of the projection period, business fixed investment was likely to continue increasing, including machinery investment to address labor shortage, digital-related investment, and R&D investment related to growth areas and decarbonization. Members agreed that, although private consumption was expected to be under downward pressure from the real income side due to price rises, it was projected to continue increasing. They said that this was mainly because pent-up demand was likely to materialize, supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed while public health was being protected. With regard to pent-up demand, one member expressed the view that, while private consumption was projected to continue recovering, mainly for event-related consumption, it was difficult to expect consumers to immediately withdraw much of said savings, given the impact of price rises and changes in people's behavioral patterns drawn from their experience of the pandemic. Members shared the view that, from the middle of the projection period, private consumption was expected to keep increasing steadily, although the materialization of pent-up demand was likely to slow. Members shared the view that employee income was projected to continue increasing moderately on the back of a rise in the number of non-regular employees associated with a recovery in the face-to-face services sector, and of an increase in wage growth that reflected improvement in labor market conditions. One member pointed out that household income was expected to increase given, for example, that (1) the outcome of the annual spring labor-management wage negotiations suggested that wage growth -- including that at small and medium-sized firms -- for fiscal 2022 had exceeded that of the previous fiscal year, and (2) a survey targeting large firms indicated that summer bonuses had increased by more than 10 percent. Regarding this point, the member said that upward pressure on wages had heightened, reflecting the impact of price rises in daily necessities stemming from a surge in prices of imported raw materials, and of structural labor shortages. A different member expressed the opinion that rises in firms' expected growth rate of Japan's economy and in inflation expectations could be increasing room for wage increases. Comparing the above projections with those in the April 2022 Outlook Report, members agreed that the projected growth rate for fiscal 2022 was lower due to the effects of such factors as a slowdown in overseas economies and intensification of supply-side constraints; however, the projected growth rates thereafter were somewhat higher, partly owing to a rebound from the lower projection for fiscal 2022. Members then discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's price developments. They agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase toward the end of 2022 due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods; thereafter, the rate of increase was expected to decelerate because the positive contribution of the rise in energy prices to the CPI was likely to wane. Some members said that the increase in consumer prices was mainly attributable to the rise in prices of imported raw materials. On this basis, these members expressed the view that, unless commodity prices continued to rise, the CPI inflation rate was expected to decline from fiscal 2023 onward. In terms of inflation excluding energy, for which prices fluctuate significantly, members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) was expected to increase moderately in positive territory on the back of improvement in the output gap and rises in medium- to long-term inflation expectations and in wage growth. However, a few members commented that, at present, it was unlikely that the rate of increase would reach 2 percent within the projection period. As background factors to this outlook for prices, members shared the view that the output gap, which captures the utilization of labor and capital, was currently slightly negative; however, with Japan's economy following a growth path that outpaced its potential growth rate, the gap was projected to turn positive around the second half of fiscal 2022 and then continue to expand moderately. In addition, they concurred that medium- to long-term inflation expectations had risen, albeit at a moderate pace relative to short-term ones. On this basis, members shared the view that, given that the formation of inflation expectations in Japan was largely adaptive, an increase in actual inflation was expected to bring about a rise in households' and firms' medium- to long-term inflation expectations and, through changes in firms' price- and wage-setting stance and in labor-management wage negotiations, lead to a sustained rise in prices accompanied by wage increases. Regarding this point, one member said that, in order to realize a more widespread and sustained rise in prices, it was extremely important to achieve a sustained increase in wages that reflected economic growth. On this basis, this member expressed the view that sustained wage hikes and an increase in value-added were becoming important issues for business management. The member continued that a virtuous cycle between wages and prices was expected to operate through, for example, investment in human capital, an increase in job changes aimed at increasing income, and the growth of startups. In addition, a different member pointed out that it was becoming highly likely that the following three changes would bring about a sustained rise in prices: the rise in medium- to long-term inflation expectations, improvement in firms' expected growth rate of Japan's economy, and the growing perception of labor shortage among firms. This member then said that it might be more likely than before that these changes would promote a transformation in firms' business models and in turn alter the norm for prices through a virtuous cycle between wages and prices. Members agreed that risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for the time being but generally balanced thereafter. They also shared the recognition that risks to prices were skewed to the upside for the time being but generally balanced thereafter. Members agreed that the financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Members agreed on the policy stance that, for the time being, while closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19, the Bank would support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets, and would not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Members shared the recognition that, from the viewpoint of achieving the price stability target in a sustainable and stable manner, it was important for wages to increase. Members shared the view that, depending on the degree of upward pressure from raw material costs and on developments in firms' inflation expectations, the pass-through of cost increases could accelerate by more than expected and lead prices to deviate upward from the baseline scenario. Members shared the view that there were high uncertainties over firms' price- and wage-setting behavior, which could exert either upward or downward pressure on prices. Members shared the view that attention was warranted on developments in foreign exchange rates and international commodity prices and their impact on prices. Members noted that fluctuations in international commodity prices had been significant, reflecting high uncertainties over developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine. Members recognized that risks to prices were skewed to the upside for the time being but generally balanced thereafter. Members recognized that, from a longer-term perspective, if downward pressure on financial institutions' profits became prolonged, there would be risks of both a gradual pullback in financial intermediation activities and of increased vulnerability of the financial system. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent every business day for an unlimited amount through the fixed-rate method, unless it is highly likely that no bids will be submitted. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amounts outstanding will gradually return to pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of June 16 and 17, 2022, for release on July 26. The Policy Board approved unanimously the dates of the Monetary Policy Meetings to be held in 2023 and agreed to make this public after the meeting. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era.