A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Tuesday, September 21, 2021, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:43 p.m., and on Wednesday, September 22, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:40 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on July 15 and 16, 2021, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19); flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.04 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.06 to minus 0.13 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. Meanwhile, special remuneration started to be applied through the Special Deposit Facility to Enhance the Resilience of the Regional Financial System from the September 2021 reserve maintenance period. Since then, short-term interest rates generally had been at the same levels as in the first half of the August reserve maintenance period. While the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 had been declining in Japan, the Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen significantly, mainly reflecting the correction of Japanese stock prices, which had been undervalued relative to those in the United States and Europe. However, it had recently declined to a somewhat considerable extent, mainly due to concerns over a Chinese major real estate developer's debt problem. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had generally been more or less flat against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Business sentiment globally had improved, and the production level of the manufacturing industry and the trade volume had been significantly above the pre-pandemic levels seen around spring 2020. Advanced economies and the Chinese economy had been the driving forces for the recovery in overseas economies, although downward pressure continued to be exerted on some emerging economies, partly due to the spread of COVID-19 variants. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. That said, the pace of recovery was highly likely to be uneven across countries, primarily due to the different paces in the vaccine rollout. In addition, there remained high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. Private consumption had increased, mainly on the back of the government's economic measures, although the pace of improvement in services consumption had decelerated following the spread of COVID-19 variants. The number of employees had increased, but the degree of recovery remained moderate relative to the pace of resumption in economic activity. As for the corporate sector, in a situation where business sentiment kept improving, business fixed investment had increased, mainly for machinery investment. The European economy had picked up. Private consumption, including services consumption, had recovered clearly with economic activity continuing to resume. With regard to the corporate sector, business sentiment had improved, mainly in the services industry, while exports and production had followed a pick-up trend. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had picked up. The Chinese economy continued to recover. Private consumption had increased, mainly owing to an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to rise, mainly in the manufacturing industry, on the back of recovery in demand at home and abroad and firm corporate profits. Under these circumstances, production also continued to increase. Emerging economies other than China maintained their pick-up trend on the whole, supported by firm external demand, although domestic demand had been pushed down and production had been affected in some countries and regions due to a resurgence of COVID-19. The NIEs remained on a recovery trend with exports increasing, although some economies continued to be affected by the spread of COVID-19. While the impact of the resurgence of COVID-19 lingered, the pace of pick-up in the ASEAN countries had decelerated as downward pressure on domestic demand remained and the pace of increase in exports had slowed. With respect to overseas financial markets, stock prices in advanced economies had risen reflecting favorable corporate results; however, such markets had recently shown some nervousness, mainly owing to concerns over the debt problem in the Chinese real estate sector. Long-term interest rates were more or less unchanged, mainly due to expectations for continued monetary easing measures. In the foreign exchange market, currencies in emerging economies were more or less flat with market sentiment remaining favorable on the whole. Crude oil prices had been at high levels, partly due to supply concerns caused by the major hurricanes that hit the southern United States. Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, mainly due to progress with vaccinations, and supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. That said, while vigilance against COVID-19 continued, the level of economic activity, mainly in the face-to-face services sector, was expected to be lower than that prior to the pandemic for the time being. Public investment continued on a moderate uptrend. Looking at the real public fixed capital formation in the GDP statistics for the April-June quarter of 2021, although it had been slightly negative for two consecutive quarters on a quarter-on-quarter basis, partly due to short-term fluctuations in the deflator, public investment seemed to have actually continued increasing moderately. As for the outlook, public investment was expected to keep increasing steadily, reflecting progress in construction related to building national resilience. Exports and industrial production continued to increase against the background of the recovery in overseas economies, despite some exports and production having been affected by supply-side constraints. Real exports continued to increase, led by capital goods and IT-related goods, mainly on the back of an expansion in digital-related demand on a global basis. However, they showed a relatively significant decline in August on a month-on-month basis, mainly in automobile-related goods, due to such effects as of difficulties in procuring parts caused by the spread of COVID-19 in the ASEAN countries. As for the outlook, although exports and industrial production were likely to be pushed down significantly in the short run, mainly in automobile-related goods that reflected the effects of supply-side constraints, they were likely to continue increasing as a trend, on the back of the steady expansion in digital-related demand and a recovery in demand for business fixed investment, both on a global basis. Corporate profits and business sentiment continued to improve on the whole, although weakness had been seen in some industries, such as face-to-face services. Looking at the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry, Quarterly, current profits for the April-June quarter of 2021 registered improvement for the fourth consecutive quarter, which had clearly exceeded the pre-pandemic level seen for the October-December quarter of 2019. The high level in current profits was attributable to (1) an increase in dividends from subsidiaries following, for example, overseas businesses having been favorable, (2) a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses -- such as advertising and business travel expenses -- during the COVID-19 pandemic, and (3) the underpinnings of various fiscal support measures. However, there had been significant variation across industries and firm sizes; for example, current profits of small and medium-sized nonmanufacturing firms had decreased with public health measures remaining in place. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. Real business fixed investment on a GDP basis for the April-June quarter increased clearly. While improvement in corporate profits continued, the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- continued to increase firmly, mainly for digital-related goods, such as personal computers and goods related to base stations and 5G networks, and for construction machinery. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- had been on a moderate declining trend but stopped declining, mainly due to an increase in construction of logistics facilities on the back of an expansion in e-commerce. As for the outlook, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, supported by improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. When fluctuations were smoothed out, machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment -- had shown a pick-up, mainly driven by an increase of those in the manufacturing industry. Planned expenses of construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment -- had picked up on the whole. This was because, although the construction of stores and accommodation facilities -- mainly by the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries -- continued to show weakness, construction starts had been supported by an increase in construction of such buildings as logistics facilities as well as by progress in urban redevelopment projects and construction demand for medical, healthcare, and welfare services facilities. Private consumption remained stagnant due to continuing strong downward pressure on consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had seen a pick-up through July, particularly for services consumption such as travel and dining-out. However, it seemed to have turned to a decline in August, largely attributable to growing vigilance among consumers amid the nationwide spread of the Delta variant and the expansion in areas where the state of emergency had been declared, and in part to irregular weather. Consumption of durable goods had been decreasing recently, particularly for automobiles and household electrical appliances, mainly caused by a peaking-out of stay-at-home demand and supply-side constraints due to a semiconductor shortage. That of nondurable goods had been more or less flat at a relatively low level, pushed down by sluggishness in such items as clothes that reflected a decrease in opportunities to go out, although food and daily necessities had been firm, supported by an expansion in stay-at-home demand. Services consumption declined to a relatively large extent in May, affected by the third state of emergency, but turned to an increase in June, partly owing to the lifting of the state of emergency in most prefectures, and continued to increase in July. Looking at developments in private consumption for August based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, it seemed to have turned to a decline on the whole; specifically, consumption of durable goods continued to decrease, while that of nondurable goods and services had declined again, reflecting an expansion in areas where the government had declared its fourth state of emergency and given the reduced frequency of people going outside, both of which were due to the spread of the Delta variant. In particular, dining-out and domestic travel seemed to have declined to low levels similar to those seen in May, when the third state of emergency was in effect. In the outlook, private consumption, mainly of face-to-face services, was highly likely to be subdued at a low level for the time being while the effects of COVID-19 and the resultant public health measures remained. Thereafter, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually, mainly led by the progress with vaccinations, private consumption was expected to pick up again, supported also by the materialization of pent-up demand. Housing investment had picked up. After bottoming out in the October-December quarter of 2020, the number of housing starts had picked up, mainly owing to favorable demand for detached houses in suburban areas and pent-up demand. As for the outlook, with downward pressure stemming from the impact of COVID-19 dissipating, housing investment was likely to continue to pick up, partly supported by accommodative financial conditions and the pent-up demand. The employment and income situation remained weak due to the impact of COVID-19. As for the employment situation, the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey had bottomed out, reflecting a pick-up in overall economic activity; however, it remained at a relatively low level, mainly for non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. The year-on-year rate of change in total cash earnings had been positive due to the base effect of the previous year's decline and an increase in scheduled cash earnings in some industries facing a strong sense of labor shortage. As for the outlook, employee income was likely to pick up, reflecting the pick-up in economic activity and improvement in business performance. As for prices, international commodity prices had been at a high level on the back of the recovery in overseas economies and supply-side constraints observed in some industries, although concerns over the spread of COVID-19 had been exerting downward pressure on such prices. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 0 percent, mainly due to a rise in energy prices, despite being affected by COVID-19 and a reduction in mobile phone charges. That for the April-June quarter was substantially revised downward by 0.7 percentage point, mainly because the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges had expanded due to the rebasing of the CPI from the base year of 2015 to 2020. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) had been slightly positive, even with the new 2020-based index, when excluding such effects as of mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to turn slightly positive, mainly reflecting the rise in energy prices. Thereafter, it was expected to increase gradually, mainly on the back of continued improvement in economic activity and a dissipation of the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole, as that stemming mainly from a rise in precautionary demand due to the impact of COVID-19 generally had been moderate, although demand for funds such as those related to mergers and acquisitions of firms had been seen in part. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had decelerated compared with the relatively high growth last year; they had been in the range of 0.0-0.5 percent and at around 5 percent, respectively. Therefore, when excluding the new CPI based on the 2020 benchmark, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (excluding fresh food and energy) was slightly positive. Meanwhile, inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. Members concurred that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to turn slightly positive. Thereafter, it was expected to increase gradually, mainly on the back of continued improvement in economic activity and a dissipation of the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Members recognized that financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole. Financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. On this basis, they expressed the recognition that the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole. Members shared the recognition that the U.S. economy had recovered. Members concurred that the European economy had picked up. Members shared the recognition that the Chinese economy continued to recover. Members concurred that the economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Members shared the recognition that business fixed investment had picked up. Members agreed that private consumption remained stagnant. Members agreed that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI had been at around 0 percent. They also shared the view that inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. Members concurred that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to turn slightly positive, mainly reflecting the rise in energy prices. It is highly likely that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI would turn positive, but achieving the price stability target is difficult. If firms are unable to pass on cost increases stemming from a rise in commodity prices to their product prices, expenditure on business fixed investment and labor costs would be curbed, and households facing stagnant income would consume less. It is necessary to pay close attention to whether, while the impact of COVID-19 remains, firms' and households' medium- to long-term growth expectations would not decline substantially. While financial markets have been stable on the whole, it is necessary to be vigilant in closely monitoring economic and financial developments. The staff provided an explanation on the design of the Funds-Supplying Operations to Support Financing for Climate Change Responses. Financial institutions are required to disclose a certain level of information on their efforts to address climate change. Members concurred that the design of the Climate Response Financing Operations explained by the staff was appropriate on the whole. Regarding the short-term policy interest rate, it was expressed that it would be appropriate to apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1%. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of July 15 and 16, 2021, for release on September 28. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era.