A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, June 15, 2020, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:11 p.m., and on Tuesday, June 16, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:26 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meetings on April 27 and May 22, 2020, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted purchases of CP and corporate bonds and the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) to support financing mainly of firms under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). In addition, the Bank had provided ample yen and foreign currency funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and the conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and had actively purchased exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.02 to minus 0.07 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had risen somewhat, amid the increased issuance of such bills, and recently had been at around minus 0.1 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average had risen, mainly reflecting aggressive fiscal and monetary policies as well as moves to resume economic activity in each country and region. Looking at developments in long-term interest rates in detail, the rates had risen somewhat, partly against the background of the rise in overseas interest rates and the increase in the planned issuance of JGBs. However, they had been at around 0 percent since the April meeting, due mainly to the Bank's active JGB purchases. After the state of emergency was lifted, liquidity in the JGB market had shown some improvement but remained at a low level, as seen, for example, in the continued low trading volume. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had temporarily depreciated against the U.S. dollar, due mainly to stronger-than-expected U.S. economic indicators, but had been more or less flat since the April meeting. In addition, it had been depreciating against the euro, partly reflecting expectations that the euro area economy would be supported by fiscal and monetary policies there. Overseas economies had been depressed significantly, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since the April Monetary Policy Meeting, major economies, such as Europe and the United States, and emerging economies, following China, had eased preventive measures against the spread of COVID-19 and had started to resume their economic activities. However, the spread of COVID-19 had been subsiding only slowly in some major economies and moving rapidly in some emerging economies. In addition, the world trade volume had been depressed significantly. With regard to the outlook, the global economy was expected to remain depressed due to the impact of COVID-19. As the impact gradually waned, however, it was likely to pick up because the expected materialization of pent-up demand and a projected recovery in production from the decline brought about by COVID-19 were expected to exert upward pressure on the economy, and the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies taken by each country and region were likely to materialize. That said, there had been extremely high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and the magnitude of their impact on the global economy. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had been depressed significantly due to the impact of COVID-19. Preventive measures against the spread, such as restrictions on going outside as well as orders to suspend business and production activities, had started to ease, albeit at different paces across the states. However, business sentiment continued to deteriorate, mainly reflecting the decrease in corporate profits, and business fixed investment had been depressed substantially. In addition, there had been a serious impact on employment and consumer sentiment had been extremely weak. The European economy had been depressed significantly due to the impact of COVID-19. In the euro area, preventive measures against the spread had started to ease. However, business sentiment continued to deteriorate, due mainly to the impact on corporate profits, and business fixed investment had declined substantially. Employment also had suffered a severe impact and consumer sentiment had worsened considerably. The Chinese economy had been picking up. Production and exports had recovered to almost the same levels seen before the outbreak of COVID-19, partly because supply-side constraints had eased. Private consumption and fixed asset investment had been picking up from a large decline that reflected the impact of the spread. Emerging economies other than China had been depressed significantly due to the impact of COVID-19. In the NIEs and the ASEAN countries, although preventive measures against the spread -- such as restrictions on going outside as well as orders to suspend business and production activities -- had started to ease, mainly in countries and regions where the spread of COVID-19 had begun to subside, their economies had been depressed significantly. Economic activity in India, Brazil, and Russia also had been depressed significantly due to the impact of the rapid spread. With respect to overseas financial markets, along with aggressive macroeconomic policies conducted by each country and region, market sentiment had been improving, reflecting, for example, the easing of preventive measures against the spread of COVID-19 followed by a resumption of economic activity and expectations for the development of medicines and vaccines. In this situation, U.S. and European stock prices and long-term interest rates had risen, and the credit spreads had narrowed somewhat in these economies. Currencies in emerging economies had been appreciating on the whole, albeit with some weakness observed in part. Meanwhile, crude oil prices had turned to an increase, mainly due to the improvement in the supply and demand balance with market sentiment improving. Japan's economy had been in an extremely severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. With regard to the outlook, it was likely to remain in a severe situation for the time being due to the impact of COVID-19, although economic activity was expected to resume gradually. Thereafter, as the impact of COVID-19 subsided, the economy was likely to improve, supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, as well as through the expected materialization of pent-up demand and a projected recovery in production from the decline brought about by COVID-19. Exports and industrial production had declined substantially with overseas economies being depressed significantly. Looking at real exports by goods, automobile-related exports had declined substantially, mainly against the background of a rapid drop in overseas sales, particularly to the United States and Europe. Capital goods exports also continued to decrease clearly, reflecting some postponements in business fixed investment worldwide. On the other hand, IT-related exports had been firm as a trend, supported by steady exports of parts for data centers and products related to personal computers. As entry restrictions continued, there had been almost no visitors to Japan. As for the outlook, exports and production were expected to decline substantially for the time being, due mainly to the depression in overseas economies that reflected the impact of COVID-19. Thereafter, they were projected to stop declining and then head toward a pick-up as the impact waned on a global basis. Private consumption had decreased significantly with the continuing impact of COVID-19, mainly in services such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations. Services consumption had declined substantially, particularly in selective expenditures including dining-out and travel, because the impact of COVID-19 had led to further self-restraint from going outside as well as temporary store closures and shorter operating hours. In relation to services demand, looking at people's movements based on mobile phone location data, they had dropped further toward mid-April, remained low through mid-May, and finally picked up somewhat toward the end of May, when the state of emergency was lifted. As for consumption of goods, selling at supermarkets had been above that for the same period last year owing to an expansion in so-called stay-at-home consumption, and selling of household electrical appliances had picked up since late May, led by personal computers against the background of the expansion in teleworking, televisions, and white goods. Although private consumption -- mainly in terms of services consumption -- was likely to remain at a low level for the time being, it was projected to pick up moderately as business activities resumed incrementally, supported partly by various income support measures. Corporate profits had registered a clear decline for the January-March quarter and seemed to have dropped further since April. In this situation, the deceleration in the pace of increase in business fixed investment had become evident, mainly due to some postponements in nonurgent investment. Regarding the outlook, the declining trend in business fixed investment was likely to become evident in industries such as (1) automobiles and general machinery, which were affected significantly by a decline in demand, and (2) eating and drinking services, accommodations, and services for individuals, in which deterioration in financial positions tended to lead directly to liquidity constraints. That said, many of the medium- to long-term projects, such as software and research and development investments as well as construction investment, were expected to continue, with accommodative financial conditions being maintained on the back of responses taken by the government and the Bank. With the continuing impact of COVID-19, the employment and income situation had shown some weakness. The year-on-year rate of change in the Labour Force Survey-based number of employees for April had registered minus 0.6 percent, turning negative for the first time since December 2012, because non-regular employees including part-time workers had declined clearly due to the impact of COVID-19. That in nominal wages for April had marked about minus 2 percent due to a further drop in non-scheduled cash earnings and a reduction in hours worked of part-time workers. Employee income was highly likely to be on a declining trend, affected by an economic downturn and a fall in corporate profits, both reflecting the impact of COVID-19. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) were both at around 0 percent. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to be negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the decline in crude oil prices. Thereafter, with the economy improving, the rate of change was expected to turn positive and then increase gradually. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole but less so in terms of corporate financing, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. As for inflation expectations, relatively weak indicators had been observed. Firms' financial positions had worsened, mainly against the background of a decline in sales that reflected the impact of COVID-19. However, financial conditions for external funds remained accommodative on the back of measures taken by the Bank and the government as well as efforts made by financial institutions. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at low levels while market funding rates had turned to a decline after rising, mainly for CP issuance rates. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole, with concern about deterioration in supply-demand conditions in those markets diminishing. Regarding firms' credit demand, there had been an increase in demand for funds that was mainly brought about by a decline in sales and the need to secure funds, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19. Looking at developments in corporate financing, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 5 percent, and that in the amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at a relatively high level that exceeded 10 percent. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan in terms of corporate financing had been less accommodative, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions, mainly against the background of a decline in sales. Members shared the view that it would continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it was necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) were both at around 0 percent, mainly affected by the decline in crude oil prices, and as for inflation expectations, relatively weak indicators had been observed. Members concurred that, for the time being, the Bank would closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. One member expressed the view that falling into deflation amid a situation where inflation expectations were not anchored to 2 percent could be a considerable obstacle to achieving the price stability target, and thus, considering this risk, it was necessary to conduct additional easing at this point.