A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, March 18, 2024, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:22 p.m., and on Tuesday, March 19, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:28 p.m. The Bank had been conducting market operations, including purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), in accordance with the guideline for market operations and the guideline for conduct of yield curve control, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on January 22 and 23, 2024. With these market operations, long-term interest rates had been at levels consistent with the Bank's guideline and the shape of the JGB yield curve continued to be generally smooth. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guidelines for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.005 to minus 0.014 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.059 to minus 0.104 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen, reflecting a rise in U.S. stock prices and solid corporate results. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had increased slightly and had been in the range of around 0.635 to 0.785 percent. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets had seen an improvement recently. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, showed a slight improvement from the previous survey. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been more or less flat against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. The U.S. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB). The Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly owing to the effects of a slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as signs of a pick-up had been seen in exports. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being. Thereafter, they were expected to grow moderately, albeit with variation across countries and regions. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of past policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, in the United States and Europe, long-term interest rates had risen slightly, albeit with fluctuations. U.S. stock prices had increased, due to solid economic indicators and to growth expectations led by an expansion in demand for new technologies related to high-tech. Stock prices in Europe had also risen, in line with those in the United States. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had been more or less flat on the whole. Crude oil prices had risen against the background of heightened geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, it was likely to continue to do so for the time being, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, as well as by factors such as accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, they were projected to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, as overseas economies grew moderately, albeit with variation across countries and regions, they were likely to return to an uptrend. Industrial production had been more or less flat as a trend, but it had declined recently, partly due to the effects of a suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. Meanwhile, with respect to the impact of the 2024 Noto Peninsula Earthquake on production, factors such as a severe impact on supply chains had not been observed to date, as the resumption of production had progressed. However, close attention continued to be warranted. Regarding the outlook, industrial production was likely to remain more or less flat for the time being. Thereafter, it was likely to return to an uptrend, reflecting developments in domestic and overseas demand, such as a global pick-up in IT-related goods. Corporate profits had improved. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. Private consumption had been resilient, although the impact of price rises and developments such as a decline in automobile sales due to the suspension of shipment at some automakers had been observed. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted), after increasing for the July-September quarter of 2023, partly due to the positive effects of hot weather, had declined through January 2024. Nevertheless, when excluding the effects of temporary factors that had pushed down the CAI, such as mild winter weather and the suspension of production and shipment at some automakers, it had been resilient, particularly for services consumption, despite being affected by price rises. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption since February 2024 seemed to have been resilient. However, an intensified thriftiness among households that reflected price rises continued to be pointed out by some firms, and the effects of the decline in automobile production had been observed. Consumer sentiment had been improving recently. Regarding the outlook, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to increase moderately with nominal employee income continuing to improve, and partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. With economic activity normalizing, the number of non-regular employees had risen moderately, mainly in the wholesale and retail trade as well as the face-to-face services industries. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity and the results of the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Corporate managers' responses to the 2024 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations revealed to date showed that wage increases for 2024, including regular seniority-based ones, had been in the range of 5.0-5.5 percent, and the rate of increase in base pay for 2024 had been in the range of 3.5-4.0 percent, both significantly exceeding the 2023 levels. In addition, according to anecdotal information from firms -- which was gathered through the Bank's Head Office and branches -- almost all branches reported that, in areas they monitored, it was highly likely that average wage increases predicted to date would be at levels equivalent to or higher than those of the previous year. Many small-sized firms noted that, although they recognized the need to raise wages to recruit and retain employees, they intended to decide their actual wage growth rates by examining the situation surrounding wages after wage increases at large firms had been fully revealed. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. The year-on-year rate of decline in real employee income was projected to follow a decelerating trend; thereafter, the rate of change was likely to gradually turn positive. As for prices, commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had been slightly positive recently, mainly due to the impact of the rise in crude oil prices since summer 2023. The negative contribution of energy prices to the year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been relatively large, partly due to the government's economic measures. That said, the rate of increase in the CPI had been at around 2 percent recently, mainly on the back of the fact that, despite waning, the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices remained, and services prices had increased moderately. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be above 2 percent through fiscal 2024, due to factors such as the effects, albeit waning, of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices and a waning of the effects of the government's economic measures pushing down CPI inflation of the previous year. Thereafter, the rate of increase was projected to decelerate owing to dissipation of these factors. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 1.5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been at around 2.5 percent. That in the money stock had been at around 2.5 percent. As part of the Review of Monetary Policy from a Broad Perspective, relevant departments were working together in conducting a research project that looked back on the positive and side effects of the Bank's unconventional monetary policy measures that had been implemented over the past 25 years. From this research project currently underway, staff from the Financial Markets Department reported on the impact of the unconventional monetary policy on financial markets, which included the following: (1) the effects of the unconventional monetary policy on the functioning of the money market; (2) the results of analyses with respect to the side effects of quantitative and qualitative monetary easing (QQE) and yield curve control on the functioning of the JGB market; and (3) a review of foreign exchange rate developments and points to take into account in the context of the unconventional monetary policy. In order to examine the functioning of the money market over the past 25 years, this period was divided into the following three phases, and its developments during each phase were reviewed: (1) 2001 to 2006, when quantitative easing had been implemented (Phase 1); (2) 2008 to 2016, after the Complementary Deposit Facility was introduced (Phase 2); and (3) 2016 and onward, after the introduction of the negative interest rate policy (Phase 3). During Phase 1, trading incentives between financial institutions had weakened; however, in Phase 2, the introduction of the Complementary Deposit Facility had created an incentive for financial institutions eligible to receive interest under this facility to trade with those that were not eligible. During Phase 3, financial institutions had actively undertaken arbitrage transactions under the three-tier system of the Complementary Deposit Facility, which allowed for the assessment that a sufficient level of money market functioning had been maintained. The side effects of QQE and yield curve control on the functioning of the JGB market could be described as follows: (1) a decline in market liquidity; (2) distortions in relative prices; and (3) a weakening of trading platforms for yen-denominated bonds. Of these side effects, distortions in relative prices had been heading toward improvement. On the other hand, the decline in market liquidity was likely to continue. As for the weakening of trading platforms for yen-denominated bonds, while some market participants had voiced that it was possible to reconstruct the platforms, others had pointed out that it could take considerable time for them to recover completely. It was necessary for the Bank to continue working to gain a clear grasp of how these side effects would affect Japan's financial markets in the medium to long term. Reviewing developments in foreign exchange rates over the past 25 years, the yen's value had been fluctuating significantly, affected by various factors that had drawn market attention at each point in time. The Bank's unconventional monetary policy measures that had been implemented during this period could have affected foreign exchange rates to a certain extent, through their effects on market expectations of future exchange rates. That said, such expectation formation appeared to have been subject to substantial change depending on developments in the global economy and global financial markets at each point in time. In this way, the effects of the unconventional monetary policy on foreign exchange rates entailed extremely high uncertainties. The analyses of individual research conducted in this project were expected to be released in the form of research papers, such as the Bank of Japan Working Paper Series. Based on the above staff reports, members discussed the impact of the Bank's unconventional monetary policy on financial markets. With respect to the money market, one member noted that market functioning had deteriorated significantly during the period of quantitative easing. The member then assessed that, in the subsequent phases, the Complementary Deposit Facility had had substantial effects in conducting monetary easing while also maintaining the functioning of the money market. Regarding the JGB market, some members expressed the recognition that, even in a case where the Bank would terminate large-scale monetary easing, it could take time for factors such as the market functioning and liquidity to recover. A few members pointed to the possibility that the volatility of long-term interest rates -- in this recovery phase of market liquidity and other factors -- would tend to heighten due to changes in, for example, the economic and price situation. One of these members added that, bearing in mind that this situation could continue for a prolonged period, it was important to carefully keep monitoring market developments. On this basis, a few members expressed the view that, in a case where the Bank would terminate the yield curve control framework, it would need to consider these points in reducing the amount of its subsequent JGB purchases. One of these members was of the view that, although the trading platforms for yen-denominated bonds were likely to be reconstructed from a somewhat long-term perspective, market participants' transaction behavior could differ from that in the past, even after the reconstruction. In addition, a different member expressed the view that it was necessary for the Bank to proceed with initiatives such as an exchange of views with market participants, including foreign investors. As for developments in foreign exchange rates, a few members noted that the yen's value had deviated notably from purchasing power parity. These members then expressed the view that, in terms of a long-term trend, this was likely because the yen's depreciation had continued moderately, mainly against the background of Japanese manufacturers shifting their production sites to overseas, after appreciating through the mid-1990s, reflecting their high productivity. The Complementary Deposit Facility had substantial effects in conducting monetary easing while also maintaining the functioning of the money market. Some members expressed the recognition that, even in a case where the Bank would terminate large-scale monetary easing, it could take time for factors such as the market functioning and liquidity to recover. On this basis, one of these members expressed the view that, while the yen had depreciated considerably for about the past two years relative to purchasing power parity, this could reflect the fact that market participants had tended to factor in interest rate differentials between Japan and other economies more than before the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). A different member pointed out that the current levels of foreign exchange rates and stock prices differed significantly from those in around 2012, which was before the large-scale monetary easing; therefore, the transmission mechanism of monetary policy, as well as its positive ripple effects and side effects, could also differ accordingly under the present circumstances. Based on these discussions, members shared the recognition that it was appropriate to continue to discuss the impact of the Bank's unconventional monetary policy on financial markets, while taking into account the staff's additional analyses and examinations. From the research project currently underway, staff from the Financial System and Bank Examination Department reported on the following as part of a look back at financial intermediation over the past 25 years: (1) assessment of whether the financial intermediation function had led to a buildup of financial imbalances that could bring about significant adjustments to economic activity; (2) issues to be considered regarding the positive and side effects of the large-scale monetary easing measures on the financial system; and (3) the impact of low interest rate lending on firms' financial conditions. Amid the low interest rate environment, no major accumulation of financial imbalances, such as those seen before and after the bubble period in the late 1980s, had been observed in the financial gap, which shows the financial cycle. The contraction phase in the financial cycle observed after the bursting of the bubble economy had ended by the mid-2000s. Meanwhile, with regard to financial intermediation, corporate loans saw a decline toward the first half of the 2000s, mainly due to balance-sheet adjustments and the disposal of non-performing loans. Thereafter, however, the balance between corporate credit and the level of economic activity had been more or less stable. The amount of loans outstanding continued to increase over most of the period of the past 25 years, in which financial institutions' lending attitudes had been accommodative. A counterfactual analysis suggested that, in addition to the effects of low interest rates and of improvement in economic activity, the effects of improvement in the value of collateral against the background of stable land prices had also contributed to the increase in lending over the past 10 years. Furthermore, the intensified competition among financial institutions in loan markets was likely to have led to shrinking lending margins and an increase in loans. It should be noted that, in the real estate-related sector, which is highly sensitive to interest rates, the amount of loans outstanding was near its historical peak. With regard to the increase in loans, there were cases where the borrowers' resilience to a decline in income or a rise in lending rates was relatively low. In addition, as borrowing terms for firms and households had become longer, interest rate risks had been rising. While long-term floating-rate borrowings were a source of interest rate risks for households, long-term fixed-rate loans to firms were a factor behind a rise in banks' interest rate risks. As for financial institutions' profitability, although it had turned to an increase recently, it had been at a low level from a historical perspective. As a result, stress resilience among some financial institutions, mainly regional ones, had declined. In addition, in a case where interest rates rose significantly in a short period of time, valuation losses on securities holdings could restrict the financial intermediation activities of financial institutions. Among the firms that had increased their borrowings, while some had seen improvement in their profitability and had increased their financial robustness, there had also always been a certain share of firms that continued to be faced with low profitability. With regard to the analyses of individual research conducted in this project, these were expected to be released in the form of the Financial System Report Annex Series Bank of Japan Working Paper Series. Related discussions would also be covered in the Financial System Report scheduled to be released this April. Based on the above staff reports, members discussed the impact the Bank's unconventional monetary policy had on financial institutions' behavior and the financial system. With regard to the impact the low interest rate environment brought about by large-scale monetary easing measures had on the financial system, one member pointed out that it had promoted longer-term investment, an expansion in foreign loans and investment in foreign bonds, as well as active risk-taking by financial institutions. Furthermore, this member expressed the view that financial institutions' risk-taking behavior under the low interest rate environment had acted to push up asset prices, such as real estate prices, on a global basis. One member noted that, as a result of the large-scale monetary easing measures, financial institutions' profitability had been declining, and stress resilience at some institutions had declined, due in part to the changes in their behavior. In addition, one member expressed the recognition that, with an expansion in foreign loans and investments, the U.S. dollar funding risk faced by Japan's financial system had risen. With regard to the outlook, one member noted that attention needed to be paid to the decline in stress resilience at some financial institutions during a phase of rising interest rates, and that it was important to continue monitoring the situation carefully. A different member also commented that close attention was warranted on how portfolio rebalancing at financial institutions would progress in a case where large-scale monetary easing measures were terminated. Furthermore, a few members noted that, even if changes were made to monetary policy, it was possible that financial institutions' profits would continue to be under structural downward pressure amid a highly competitive environment. Meanwhile, a few members noted that, with regard to the quantitative easing implemented from 2001 through 2006, there were many analyses showing that an expansion of the Bank's balance sheet only had limited effects on long-term interest rates and the real economy, since such supply of funds had been mainly short-term. However, these members continued that large-scale liquidity provision had been significantly effective in eliminating financial institutions' concerns over liquidity, thereby ensuring the stability of the financial system. One member added that there was a possibility that such effects had not been sufficiently captured in the counterfactual analysis. A different member expressed the view that the swift responses taken by the Bank in the period following the GFC had also been highly effective, as firms' funding environment had been extremely severe. With regard to the background to the differences observed among firms that had increased borrowings, such as in their profitability, one member noted that, for large firms, structural reforms undertaken after the GFC had resulted in an expansion of investment for growth areas accompanied by an increase in borrowings. On the other hand, a different member pointed out that, with the low interest rate environment due to large-scale monetary easing measures, in addition to the government's support measures, firms with low profitability had been able to continue their businesses while increasing borrowings. Based on these discussions, members shared the recognition that it was appropriate to continue to discuss the impact the unconventional monetary policy had on financial institutions' behavior and the financial system, while taking into account the staff's additional analyses and examinations. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was likely to be above 2 percent through fiscal 2024. Members shared the assessment that recent data and anecdotal information from firms had gradually shown that the virtuous cycle between wages and prices had become more solid. Members shared the view that it was necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. Members agreed that recent data and anecdotal information from firms had shown that the virtuous cycle between wages and prices had become more solid. Members discussed the spillovers from wage increases to prices. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. Members shared the assessment that it was appropriate for the Bank to judge that it was now within sight that the price stability target of 2 percent would be achieved in a sustainable and stable manner. Some members expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to set the uncollateralized overnight call rate as the policy interest rate and encourage it to remain at around 0 to 0.1 percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0 to 0.1 percent. The Bank will continue its JGB purchases at broadly the same amount as before. The Bank will discontinue purchases of ETFs and J-REITs. The Bank will gradually reduce the amount of purchases of CP and corporate bonds and will discontinue the purchases in about one year. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of January 22 and 23, 2024, for release on March 25. Votes for the proposal: UEDA Kazuo, HIMINO Ryozo, UCHIDA Shinichi, ADACHI Seiji, NAKAGAWA Junko, TAKATA Hajime, and TAMURA Naoki. Votes against the proposal: NAKAMURA Toyoaki and NOGUCHI Asahi. Nakamura Toyoaki dissented from the amendment related to the proposals on the guidelines for market operations and JGB purchases, as he had voted against them. Noguchi Asahi dissented from the amendment related to the proposal on the guideline for market operations, as he had voted against it. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank considers that the policy framework of Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control and the negative interest rate policy to date have fulfilled their roles. On this basis, the Bank made the following decisions, including that on the guideline for market operations. The Bank decided to set the following guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period. The Bank will continue its JGB purchases with broadly the same amount as before. In case of a rapid rise in long-term interest rates, it will make nimble responses by, for example, increasing the amount of JGB purchases and conducting fixed-rate purchase operations of JGBs -- both of which can be done so regardless of the monthly schedule of JGB purchases -- and the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral. The Bank will discontinue purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). The Bank will provide loans under the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending, the Funds-Supplying Operation to Support Financial Institutions in Disaster Areas, and the Funds-Supplying Operations to Support Financing for Climate Change Responses with an interest rate of 0.1 percent and a duration of one year. Japan's economy has recovered moderately, although some weakness has been seen in part. Looking at the background conditions of wage developments, corporate profits have continued to improve and labor market conditions have been tight. As these recent data and anecdotal information have gradually shown that the virtuous cycle between wages and prices has become more solid, the Bank judged it came in sight that the price stability target would be achieved in a sustainable and stable manner toward the end of the projection period of the January 2024 Outlook Report. While Nakamura Toyoaki was in favor of discontinuing purchases of ETFs and other assets, which were mainly related to large firms, he dissented, considering that the Bank should continue with the negative interest rate policy until it confirmed that the capacity of small and medium-sized firms -- whose recovery in business performance was delayed -- to raise wages would likely increase. Noguchi Asahi dissented, considering that terminating the yield curve control framework and the negative interest rate policy simultaneously should be avoided from the perspective that the Bank should more carefully assess whether the virtuous cycle between wages and prices had become more solid and avoid the risk of bringing about discontinuous changes in financial conditions. The Bank judged that the inflation-overshooting commitment regarding the monetary base had fulfilled the conditions for its achievement. In order to achieve this guideline, the Bank will apply an interest rate of 0.1 percent to current account balances held by financial institutions at the Bank (excluding required reserve balances). The new guideline for market operations and the new interest rate on the current account balances will be effective from March 21, 2024. The amount of JGB purchases is currently about 6 trillion yen per month. The Bank will continue to announce the planned amount of JGB purchases with a range and will conduct the purchases while taking account of factors such as market developments and supply and demand conditions for JGBs. The pace of recovery in overseas economies has slowed. Although exports have been affected by the developments in overseas economies, they have been more or less flat. Industrial production has been more or less flat as a trend, but it has declined recently, partly due to the effects of a suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. With corporate profits improving, business fixed investment has been on a moderate increasing trend. The employment and income situation has improved moderately. Private consumption has been resilient, although the impact of price rises and developments such as a decline in automobile sales due to the suspension of shipment at some automakers have been observed. Housing investment has been relatively weak. Public investment has been more or less flat. Financial conditions have been accommodative. On the price front, the negative contribution of energy prices to the year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) has been relatively large, partly due to the government's economic measures. That said, the rate of increase in the CPI has been at around 2 percent recently, mainly on the back of the fact that, despite waning, the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices have remained, and services prices have increased moderately. Inflation expectations have risen moderately. Japan's economy is likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by factors such as the materialization of pent-up demand, although it is expected to be under downward pressure stemming from a slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Thereafter, as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensifies, Japan's economy is projected to continue growing at a pace above its potential growth rate. The year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) is likely to be above 2 percent through fiscal 2024, due to factors such as the effects, albeit waning, of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices and a waning of the effects of the government's economic measures pushing down CPI inflation of the previous year. Thereafter, the rate of increase is projected to decelerate owing to dissipation of these factors. Meanwhile, underlying CPI inflation is likely to increase gradually toward achieving the price stability target, as the output gap turns positive and as medium- to long-term inflation expectations and wage growth rise. Concerning risks to the outlook, there are extremely high uncertainties surrounding Japan's economic activity and prices, including developments in overseas economic activity and prices, developments in commodity prices, and domestic firms' wage- and price-setting behavior. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices.