A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, October 27, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:12 p.m., and on Friday, October 28, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:43 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on September 21 and 22, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. Furthermore, with a view to meeting a wider range of financing needs, the Bank had conducted fund-provisioning under the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral without setting an upper limit. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.021 to minus 0.073 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.074 to minus 0.115 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had moved generally in line with U.S. stock prices and was more or less unchanged throughout the intermeeting period. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar and the euro, while such factors as differences in the direction of monetary policy in Japan and that in the United States and Europe had drawn attention again. Overseas economies had recovered moderately on the whole, but slowdowns had been observed, mainly in advanced economies. Although supply-side constraints continued to wane, downward pressure on the global economy remained in place, such as the impact of global inflationary pressure, policy interest rate hikes by central banks, and the situation surrounding Ukraine. As for the outlook, although the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints was likely to wane, overseas economies were expected to slow, albeit with variation across countries and regions, reflecting the effects of various downward pressures. For the time being, there were high uncertainties over the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine as well as global inflationary pressure. There was also a risk that global financial conditions would tighten more than expected with central banks raising policy interest rates rapidly. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had slowed somewhat in reflection of a surge in inflation and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Private consumption continued to increase, particularly for services consumption, with household savings that had accumulated to date and firm labor market conditions continuing to act as underpinning factors. Nevertheless, the pace of its increase had slowed, mainly affected by the surge in inflation. Housing investment had decreased in reflection of the policy interest rate hikes. Production continued to increase, and business fixed investment also continued to see a small increase. Business sentiment kept improving, but the pace of improvement had slowed in the manufacturing industry. Regarding prices, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a high increase in the range of 6.0-6.5 percent on a year-on-year basis, mainly due to the effects of tight supply and demand conditions. In European economies, slowdowns had been observed as they continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. With regard to private consumption, while services consumption maintained an increasing trend, the consumption of goods other than automobiles had decelerated due to a surge in energy prices. Business sentiment had deteriorated. Production had been more or less flat on the whole, albeit with fluctuations. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of increase in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been at a very high level of around 10 percent, mainly due to the rise in food and energy prices. The Chinese economy had recovered from the state of being pushed down as the impact of lockdowns and other public health measures had waned, despite the remaining effects of the spread of COVID-19. Private consumption had recovered as a trend from a deeply depressed level seen around spring, although the pace of improvement had slowed in part. Production had followed a recovery trend. Exports had generally recovered, reflecting the normalization of the production and logistics situations. Fixed asset investment had increased moderately on the whole, reflecting an increase in infrastructure investment, although real estate investment continued to decrease. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole, albeit with weakness seen in part. The NIEs and the ASEAN economies had recovered on the whole as domestic demand continued to improve with progress in the resumption of economic activity, although growth in exports had decelerated. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in advanced economies had risen significantly on the back of central banks raising policy interest rates rapidly, and due in part to vigilance regarding fiscal policy in the United Kingdom. Stock prices had risen slightly over the intermeeting period in the United States and Europe, albeit with fluctuations. Crude oil prices had risen, mainly against the background of an agreement reached on large-scale production cuts by major oil-producing economies. Currencies in emerging economies had generally depreciated as preference for the U.S. dollar continued, mainly reflecting a rise in U.S. interest rates in addition to concern over a global economic slowdown. Japan's economy, despite being affected by factors such as high commodity prices, had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected from COVID-19. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from high commodity prices and slowdowns in overseas economies. Exports and industrial production had increased as a trend, with the effects of supply-side constraints waning. Developments in real exports by goods were as follows. Although the global supply and demand conditions for semiconductors continued to be tight, exports of automobile-related goods had turned to a clear increase as the impact of lockdowns such as in Shanghai had almost dissipated. Exports of capital goods had increased, supported by steady machinery investment on a global basis and by strong demand for semiconductor production equipment on the back of projections that digital-related demand would expand in the medium to long term. Some weakness had been observed in IT-related exports, mainly for semiconductors for smartphones and personal computers, reflecting a global slowdown in demand for these items. Regarding the outlook, exports and industrial production were likely to remain on an uptrend, supported by the waning of supply-side constraints and high levels of order backlogs for automobiles and capital goods, although they were expected to be affected by the slowdowns in overseas economies. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business sentiment was more or less unchanged. Looking at developments in the diffusion index (DI) for business conditions in the September 2022 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) by industry, the DI for manufacturing had been more or less flat because it had been affected by raw material cost increases despite the effects of supply-side constraints waning somewhat. The DI for overall nonmanufacturing had improved slightly; while the DIs for industries such as electric and gas utilities as well as retail had been affected by rises in input prices, those for industries such as goods rental and leasing, transport and postal activities, and accommodations as well as eating and drinking services had improved somewhat. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole despite being pushed down by the impact of high commodity prices, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear on the back of accommodative financial conditions and the waning of supply-side constraints. Looking at leading indicators of such investment, machinery orders (private sector, excluding orders for ships and those from electric power companies) and construction starts (in terms of planned expenses for private and nonresidential construction) had both increased, albeit with fluctuations. The business fixed investment plan in the September showed that business fixed investment -- including software and research and development (R&D) investments but excluding land purchasing expenses, for all industries and enterprises including financial institutions -- was likely to see a clear increase of 15.2 percent on a year-on-year basis for fiscal 2022. This was because projects that had been postponed due to COVID-19 were expected to be carried out, and IT-related investment to digitalize business activities as well as environmental investment toward decarbonization were projected to increase. Private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by COVID-19. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased clearly for the April-June quarter of 2022. It then saw a slight decline on the whole for the July-August period relative to the April-June quarter. By type, consumption of durable goods declined for the July-August period, mainly for smartphones, despite being pushed up by the waning of supply-side constraints. Consumption of nondurable goods had been firm, mainly for beverages and food, on the back of a pick-up in people's willingness to go out and of temperature rises. Services consumption declined slightly for the July-August period due to the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence during summer 2022. That said, the extent of the declines in dining-out and domestic travel was marginal compared with that observed during past phases when cases had surged. Looking at developments in private consumption since September based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, it seemed to have increased moderately with the COVID-19 situation improving. Although many goods and services had seen price hikes since the beginning of October, price rises did not seem to have made households' consumption behavior significantly cautious so far. That said, looking at confidence indicators related to private consumption, the consumer confidence index remained at a low level, with attention being given to price rises. Regarding the outlook, private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises. However, on the back of improvement in the employment situation, it was projected to continue increasing because pent-up demand was likely to materialize, supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed further while public health was being protected. The employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole. Regarding the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey, that of regular employees had followed a moderate uptrend, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced a severe labor shortage. The number of non-regular employees had increased moderately of late, including for the face-to-face services industry. The employment conditions DI in the September showed an increase in net "insufficient." Total cash earnings per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the pick-up in overall economic activity. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue increasing along with economic improvement. In real terms, however, the year-on-year rate of change in employee income was likely to be negative for the time being, reflecting price rises. As for prices, international commodity prices had been more or less flat, mainly because concern over a global economic slowdown had weighed on them. Reflecting developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier continued to be relatively high, although it had decelerated. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 3 percent due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. The year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) for Tokyo's 23 wards for October was 3.4 percent, having accelerated from 2.8 percent for September. Inflation expectations had risen. Specifically, short-term inflation expectations had increased clearly. Medium- to long-term expectations had also risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase toward the end of 2022 due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. The rate of increase was then expected to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023 because the contribution of such price rises to this CPI was likely to wane. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds had risen moderately as demand for working capital had increased in reflection of the resumption of economic activity and raw material cost increases. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. Those for corporate bonds also had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent and around 7 percent, respectively; their amounts outstanding remained at high levels. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions continued on an improving trend, including for small and medium-sized firms, on the back of the pick-up in the economy, although weakness remained in some segments. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been negative, as the amount outstanding of funds provided through the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing had decreased. That in the money stock had been positive, in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to a rise in net interest income on the back of a rise in loans outstanding and to an increase in income from fees and commissions, although realized gains/losses on securities holdings had deteriorated, reflecting the rise in overseas interest rates. Their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had also been firm, mainly owing to increases in net interest income and net non-interest income, although realized gains/losses on securities holdings had deteriorated, reflecting the rise in overseas interest rates. Their credit costs had been at low levels. With regard to the financial cycle, of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, three -- including one indicating the amount of financial institutions' credit relative to real economic activity -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Nevertheless, this was mainly the result of active support toward corporate financing since the outbreak of COVID-19 and the fact that firms had secured ample on-hand liquidity. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to a rise in net interest income on the back of a rise in loans outstanding and to an increase in income from fees and commissions. Profits of regional banks had also been firm, mainly owing to increases in net interest income and net non-interest income. Of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, three showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Nevertheless, this was mainly the result of active support toward corporate financing since the outbreak of COVID-19 and the fact that firms had secured ample on-hand liquidity, and therefore did not signal any overheating of financial activities. With the aim of facilitating market operations, the staff proposed that the Bank amend the existing purchasing method. The proposal to amend the purchasing method for ETFs was put to a vote, and members voted unanimously to approve the proposal. Members shared the recognition that overseas economies had recovered moderately on the whole, but slowdowns had been observed, mainly in advanced economies. The U.S. economy had slowed somewhat in reflection of a surge in inflation and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Members shared the view that Japan's economy, despite being affected by factors such as high commodity prices, had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed. Members concurred that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 3 percent. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase toward the end of 2022. Members concurred that, on a fiscal-year basis, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was highly likely to be below 2 percent from fiscal 2023. Members shared the recognition that the financial conditions based on the outlook for economic activity and prices were likely to remain accommodative, and that this was expected to support an increase in private demand. Members discussed the risks to economic activity and prices. Members recognized that attention was warranted on developments in overseas economic activity and prices and in global financial markets. Members shared the view that there was a risk that overseas economies would deviate downward from the baseline scenario. Members agreed that risks to prices were skewed to the upside. Members agreed that the financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Members shared the view that the financial system was likely to remain highly robust on the whole because financial institutions had sufficient capital bases. Members agreed that it was important to continue with the current monetary easing to achieve the price stability target in a sustainable and stable manner. Members pointed out that nominal wage increases were essential for achieving the price stability target. Members agreed that there was a risk of disrupting the formation of a virtuous cycle between prices and wages by making premature changes to monetary policy. A few members commented that the recent rapid depreciation of the yen had heightened uncertainties for firms and was largely negative for Japan's economy. One member expressed the view that while long-term interest rates remaining at the upper limit of the range has a somewhat negative effect on market functioning, long-term interest rates being at low levels had significant benefits for the macroeconomy at present. Members shared the recognition that upward pressure on interest rates had strengthened even in Japan; however, the rise in Japanese long-term interest rates had been contained by yield curve control. Members agreed that for the short-term policy interest rate, it would apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. Members decided to purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. Members decided to purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary. Members decided to purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Members decided to continue with QQE to achieve the price stability target. Members decided to maintain stability in financial markets and would not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Members decided to expect short- and long-term interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels.