A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, October 27, 2021, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:21 p.m., and on Thursday, October 28, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:38 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on September 21 and 22, 2021, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19); flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.05 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.08 to minus 0.13 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. While global financial markets had been nervous, the Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had declined to a relatively large extent into early October 2021; thereafter, however, it rose somewhat along with U.S. and European stock prices. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated somewhat significantly against both the U.S. dollar and the euro, mainly due to rises in U.S. and European interest rates. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Business sentiment globally had improved, and the production level of the manufacturing industry and the trade volume had been significantly above the pre-pandemic levels seen around spring 2020. Advanced economies continued to be the driving force for the recovery in overseas economies, although downward pressure had been exerted on the Chinese economy and some emerging economies. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. That said, the pace of recovery was highly likely to be uneven across countries, primarily due to the different paces in the vaccine rollout. In addition, there remained high uncertainties over developments in COVID-19 and supply-side constraints, as well as their impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. Private consumption had increased, mainly on the back of the government's economic measures, although the pace of improvement in services consumption had decelerated -- reflecting the spread of COVID-19 variants in summer 2021 -- and automobile sales had declined due to a semiconductor shortage. The number of employees had increased, but the degree of recovery remained moderate relative to the pace of resumption in economic activity. As for the corporate sector, in a situation where business sentiment kept improving, business fixed investment had increased, mainly for machinery investment. Regarding price developments, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a relatively high increase on a year-on-year basis due to the base effect of its decline in 2020 and to the effects of supply-side constraints stemming from the resumption of economic activity. The European economy had recovered. Private consumption kept recovering, particularly for services consumption, with economic activity continuing to resume. With regard to the corporate sector, business sentiment had improved, mainly in the services industry, while exports, particularly of transport equipment, had declined. Production had followed a pick-up trend. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had picked up. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been above 2 percent, mainly due to the base effect of its decline in 2020 and the recent rise in energy prices. The Chinese economy continued to recover as a trend, although the pace of improvement had decelerated. Private consumption had increased as a trend, mainly against the background of an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part and automobile sales had slowed due to the impact of the semiconductor shortage. Fixed asset investment had generally been more or less flat, mainly because real estate investment had decelerated in reflection of, for example, firms' debt problems. Under these circumstances, production had slowed, partly reflecting power supply issues and the effects of supply-side constraints due to the semiconductor shortage. Emerging economies other than China had picked up on the whole, supported by firm external demand, while downward pressure exerted on some countries and regions due to the spread of COVID-19 during the summer had been waning. The NIEs had been on a recovery trend, led by an increase in exports, although some economies continued to be affected by the spread of COVID-19. With the number of confirmed new cases declining, the ASEAN countries had seen a pick-up in economic activity as downward pressure on domestic demand had waned and signs of exports turning upward had been seen. With respect to overseas financial markets, stock prices in advanced economies had risen over the intermeeting period, mainly on the back of favorable corporate results. Long-term interest rates had increased clearly, owing to emerging speculation that the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England would reduce monetary accommodation earlier than expected, mainly reflecting the recent elevated inflation rates and the current rise in international commodity prices. In the foreign exchange market, currencies in emerging economies had depreciated slightly, mainly due to the rise in U.S. interest rates. Meanwhile, crude oil prices had risen significantly, reflecting growing concerns over a tightening of supply-demand conditions given, for example, the continuation of a coordinated reduction in oil production by the OPEC Plus member countries. Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. For the time being, downward pressure stemming from COVID-19 was likely to remain on services consumption, and exports and production were expected to decelerate temporarily due to supply-side constraints. Thereafter, however, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, the economy was likely to recover, supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. Public investment had been more or less flat, as investment related to disaster relief construction had been decreasing, whereas that related to erosion and flood control works, for example, had been on an uptrend. As for the outlook, public investment was expected to steadily increase, reflecting progress in construction related to building national resilience. Exports and industrial production continued to increase as a trend on the back of the recovery in overseas economies, despite being weak recently due to the effects of supply-side constraints seen in some areas. Looking at real exports by goods, those of automobile-related goods had declined significantly due to the production decline that reflected supply-chain disruptions caused by the spread of COVID-19 in the ASEAN countries. On the other hand, those of capital goods and IT-related goods -- with the exception of some items, such as on-board batteries for motor vehicles -- continued on an uptrend, reflecting an expansion in global demand for digital-related goods. As for the outlook, for the time being, exports and industrial production were likely to decelerate temporarily due to the effects of supply-side constraints; thereafter, however, as these effects waned gradually, they were expected to increase firmly again on the back of firm expansion in global demand, particularly for digital-related goods. Corporate profits continued to improve on the whole, although weakness had been seen in some industries, such as face-to-face services. Business sentiment also continued to improve on the whole, despite weakness in the automobile and face-to-face services industries. In the September 2021 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan), the diffusion index (DI) for business conditions for all industries and enterprises had improved for five consecutive quarters after hitting a bottom in the June 2020 survey. With regard to the manufacturing industry, although the DI for the automobile industry had deteriorated due to the production decline that reflected parts procurement difficulties, those for a wide range of industries continued to improve. This was mainly on the back of the steady expansion in global demand for digital-related goods and a pick-up in business fixed investment at home and abroad. As for the nonmanufacturing industry, the DI for the accommodations as well as eating and drinking services industries remained at a subdued level and those for the industries of retail and services for individuals had deteriorated, both affected by COVID-19 and public health measures. However, the DIs for such industries as wholesaling, transport and postal activities, and services for businesses had improved, mainly reflecting a recovery in activity for the manufacturing industry; thus, the overall business conditions DI for the nonmanufacturing industry had been flat. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. As for the outlook, an uptrend in such investment was expected to become clear, supported by improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. The business fixed investment plan in the September 2021 showed that business fixed investment -- including software and research and development (R&D) investments and excluding land purchasing expenses, for all industries and enterprises including financial institutions -- was likely to see a substantial year-on-year rate of increase of 9.3 percent for fiscal 2021, a level nearly equivalent to the figure presented in the June 2021 survey. This partly reflected the prospects for improvement in corporate profits, in addition to resumption in investments that had been restrained temporarily. Private consumption had shown signs of a pick-up recently, although downward pressure remained strong, particularly on services consumption, mainly due to vigilance against COVID-19. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted), after having increased firmly for June and turning flat for July, had plunged for August, mainly due to the rapid spread of COVID-19 and consequent expansion in regions where the state of emergency had been declared. Consumption of durable goods had declined recently, reflecting a peaking-out of stay-at-home-related demand and supply-side constraints seen in some areas. That of nondurable goods had been more or less flat at a somewhat low level, pushed down by sluggishness in such items as clothes that reflected a decrease in opportunities to go out, although food and daily necessities had been firm, supported by the expansion in stay-at-home demand. Services consumption had seen a pick-up for the June-July period; however, with the resurgence of COVID-19, it declined for August, particularly in dining-out and domestic travel. Looking at recent developments in private consumption based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, some durable goods remained under downward pressure due to supply-side constraints, while signs of a pick-up had been observed in services consumption since October in particular, when the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 declined and the state of emergency and priority measures to prevent the spread of disease were lifted nationwide. Dining-out for October was said to have seen a recovery in the number of diners, including at nighttime, with the resumption of serving of alcohol. Furthermore, many were of the view that bookings for year-end domestic travel, mainly for short trips, had started to pick up since early October. For the time being, it was expected that services consumption would be restrained by vigilance against COVID-19 and durable goods consumption would be pushed down by supply-side constraints, such as on automobiles. However, private consumption was expected to pick up again, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand for services and durable goods, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed while public health was being protected, mainly due to the widespread vaccinations, and as supply-side constraints waned. The employment and income situation remained weak due to the impact of COVID-19. As for the employment situation, the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey had bottomed out, reflecting a pick-up in overall economic activity; however, it remained at a relatively low level, mainly for non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. The year-on-year rate of change in total cash earnings had been positive due to the base effect of the significant decline seen in 2020 and an increase in scheduled cash earnings in some industries having acute labor shortage. As for the outlook, employee income was likely to continue improving moderately on the back of the pick-up in economic activity, and its level was expected to increase markedly. As for prices, international commodity prices had risen against the background of a recovery in the global economy and supply-side constraints seen in some areas. In this situation, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier continued to increase, reflecting developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 0 percent, mainly due to the rise in energy prices, despite being affected by COVID-19 and a reduction in mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations had picked up. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase moderately in positive territory for the time being, reflecting the rise in energy prices. Thereafter, albeit with fluctuations due to temporary factors, it was projected to increase gradually as a trend, mainly on the back of improvement in the output gap and a rise in medium- to long-term inflation expectations. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole, as a rise in precautionary demand due to the impact of COVID-19 had generally subsided, although demand for funds such as those related to mergers and acquisitions of firms had been seen in part. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had decelerated compared with the relatively high growth last year; they had been at around 0.5 percent and around 4 percent, respectively. However, their amounts outstanding remained at high levels. The environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions had improved on the whole, mainly on the back of a pick-up in Japan's economy; however, weakness remained, particularly for firms in industries facing subdued sales due to the impact of COVID-19, as well as small and medium-sized ones. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been in the range of 10-15 percent, and that in the money stock had been in the range of 4.0-4.5 percent. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Thereafter, albeit with fluctuations due to temporary factors, it was projected to increase gradually as a trend, mainly on the back of improvement in the output gap and a rise in medium- to long-term inflation expectations. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole, as a rise in precautionary demand due to the impact of COVID-19 had generally subsided, although demand for funds such as those related to mergers and acquisitions of firms had been seen in part. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had decelerated compared with the relatively high growth last year; they had been at around 0.5 percent and around 4 percent, respectively. However, their amounts outstanding remained at high levels. The environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions had improved on the whole, mainly on the back of a pick-up in Japan's economy; however, weakness remained, particularly for firms in industries facing subdued sales due to the impact of COVID-19, as well as small and medium-sized ones. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been in the range of 10-15 percent, and that in the money stock had been in the range of 4.0-4.5 percent. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to the overall loans outstanding being at a high level and to an increase in net income from fees and commissions. Their credit costs had been at low levels. Their capital adequacy ratios had risen somewhat. Profits of regional banks had also been firm, mainly owing to the amount outstanding of loans related to COVID-19 being at a high level. Their capital adequacy ratios were more or less unchanged. With regard to the financial cycle, of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, four -- including one indicating the amount of financial institutions' credit relative to real economic activity -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Nevertheless, this was mainly the result of financial institutions responding to demand for working capital, particularly by firms, which had increased due to the impact of COVID-19, and therefore did not signal any overheating of financial activities. It was necessary to continue to pay close attention to whether debt repayment would proceed along with recovery in corporate profits and the amount of credit extended by financial institutions would return to a level consistent with real economic activity. Amendment to the Loan Rates under the Special Rules for the U.S. Dollar Lending Arrangement to Enhance the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Support Strengthening the Foundations for Economic Growth The current loan rates under the Special Rules for the U.S. Dollar Lending Arrangement to Enhance the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Support Strengthening the Foundations for Economic Growth are stipulated as 6-month U.S. dollar LIBOR. In light of the encouragement by the U.S. supervisory agencies, in preparation for the cessation of U.S. dollar LIBOR, to cease entering into new contracts that use it as a reference rate, it was appropriate for the Bank to make necessary revisions to the loan rates under the Special Rules for the U.S. dollar lending arrangement. Specifically, the loan rates to be applied to U.S. dollar funds offered from January 2022 onward could be 6-month U.S. dollar Secured Overnight Financing Rate term rates (SOFR Term Rates) -- leading risk-free rates -- plus 0.42826 percent per annum, as spread adjustment, partly based on the recommendation by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC), the committee convened to identify alternative reference rates for U.S. dollar LIBOR. The amendment to 'Special Rules for the U.S. Dollar Lending Arrangement to Enhance the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Support Strengthening the Foundations for Economic Growth Conducted through the Loan Support Program,' which represented the aforementioned staff reports, was put to a vote. Members voted unanimously to approve the amendment. It was confirmed that this would be made public after the meeting. Summary of Discussions by the Policy Board on Economic and Financial Developments and the October 2021 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices Members shared the view that, with regard to global financial markets, stock prices, particularly those in the United States and Europe, had been at high levels, reflecting the recovery in the global economy; however, the markets had been nervous at times amid concern over the debt problems in the Chinese real estate sector and steps toward reducing monetary accommodation in the United States and Europe in response to rising inflation. On this point, one member commented that global financial markets remained nervous amid various risks, such as concern that the rise in inflation rates in the United States and Europe might be prolonged, developments in long-term interest rates reflecting that concern, and a deceleration in the Chinese economy. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. On this basis, many members noted that the supply side had not fully kept up with the rapid growth in demand that was due to the resumption in economic activity seen mainly in advanced economies. They continued that, during this situation, supply-side constraints had been seen globally, including the semiconductor shortage, the stagnation of logistics such as in marine transport, and parts procurement difficulties reflecting supply-chain disruptions; these constraints had therefore been restraining the recovery in overseas economies. With regard to overseas economies by region, members shared the recognition that the U.S. economy had recovered. One member said that, although the spread of the Delta variant and supply-side constraints had been acting as a headwind, the economy continued to recover, underpinned by an expansion in demand owing to an easing of movement restrictions and by the government's economic measures. A different member noted that business sentiment continued to recover both in the manufacturing and nonmanufacturing industries; however, inflation pressure had been increasing due to supply-side constraints on labor, products, and logistics. One member expressed the view that a mismatch in labor -- in which an expansion in demand was outpacing supply -- was being seen in various industries, and this had led to rises in wages as well as in prices of goods and services. The member was of the view that such a mismatch -- despite being in place for longer than expected -- was basically a transitory phenomenon that reflected the resumption in economic activity, and would therefore be resolved gradually over the course of time. Members shared the view that the European economy had recovered. One member said that the economy had improved, mainly in the face-to-face services sector -- such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations -- due to progress with vaccinations, for example. A different member noted that, according to the October 2021 World Economic Outlook released by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), among the advanced economies, the euro area was the only area for which a 2021 projection had been revised upward. Meanwhile, one member expressed the view that signs of a slowdown in economic activity were being observed to some extent, as suggested by the fact that the Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for the euro area had declined for three consecutive months. A different member expressed concern regarding signs of a resurgence of COVID-19 having been seen recently in some European countries. Members concurred that the Chinese economy continued to recover as a trend, although the pace of improvement had decelerated. Some members expressed the view that the economy had been slowing down, due to the effects of the electricity crunch, in addition to adjustment pressure in the real estate sector. One of these members pointed out that attention should be paid to the effects of the debt problems in the real estate sector, as the weight of this sector in the overall economy was high in China when compared internationally. A different member expressed the view that adjustments to real estate prices would be a factor pushing down private consumption through wealth effects and could also affect firms' funding conditions through the functioning of financial intermediation. The member continued that, with the rapidly aging population, there was a considerable risk that the Chinese economy might slip into low growth that would take hold over time, as was the case with Japan's post-bubble period. Members shared the recognition that emerging economies other than China had picked up on the whole, supported by firm external demand, while downward pressure exerted on some countries and regions due to the spread of COVID-19 in summer 2021 had been waning. One member noted that, in emerging economies, such as the ASEAN countries, supply-side issues -- including securing the labor force as well as procuring raw materials and parts -- had materialized, and the effects this would have on the Japanese and overseas economies through supply chains warranted close attention. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. A few members said that indicators related to corporate financing were maintaining their improving trends, despite the spread of the Delta variant during the summer. One of these members pointed out that the results of the September 2021 and other surveys showed that, with regard to firms' financial positions, while these remained weak in some small and medium-sized enterprises, such as in the face-to-face services sector, an improving trend had generally been seen for other sectors and large enterprises. Based on the above deliberations on economic and financial conditions abroad and financial conditions in Japan, members discussed the state of Japan's economic activity and prices. With regard to economic activity, members concurred that the economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. A few members commented that the face-to-face services industry remained under strong downward pressure; however, the economy had picked up as a trend, supported by a virtuous cycle in the corporate sector. Members agreed that exports and production continued to increase as a trend on the back of the recovery in overseas economies, despite being weak recently due to the effects of supply-side constraints seen in some areas. One member pointed out that corporate sentiment continued on an improving trend, partly because demand had been solid, although exports and production remained under downward pressure due to supply-chain disruptions. One member stated that the effects of supply-side constraints, mainly on semiconductors, not only had been exerted on the automobile industry, but also had started spreading to related industries and other products. At the same time, this member expressed the view that exports and production had shown firmness, supported by global demand for digital-related goods and for business fixed investment. Members shared the recognition that business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. One member expressed the view that digital-related demand from abroad remained firm, and that a virtuous cycle from corporate profits to business fixed investment, triggered by an increase in external demand, had been maintained. On this point, some members said that the September survey showed that firms had maintained their solid plans for corporate profits and business fixed investment despite the spread of the Delta variant during the summer, and this confirmed that the virtuous cycle in the corporate sector continued to operate. On this basis, one of these members noted that, however, it should be taken into account that the effects of supply-side constraints might not have been fully incorporated in the September survey results. A few members pointed out that, at the October 2021 meeting of general managers of the Bank's branches, there were many reports of anecdotal information obtained from firms suggesting a positive stance on business fixed investment in such areas as R&D, digitalization, and addressing environmental issues. Members agreed that private consumption had shown signs of a pick-up recently, although downward pressure remained strong, particularly on services consumption, mainly due to vigilance against COVID-19. A few members noted that, based on high-frequency indicators and anecdotal information from firms, private consumption, such as eating and drinking, had recently shown positive developments, reflecting the rapid decrease in the number of confirmed cases and the easing of movement restrictions. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI had been at around 0 percent, mainly due to the rise in energy prices, despite being affected by COVID-19 and the reduction in mobile phone charges. A few members pointed out that, when excluding the effects of temporary factors such as the reduction in mobile phone charges and the rise in energy prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI had been slightly positive. One of these members assessed that inflation expectations had picked up, as evident in the various indicators of the September survey. The member then expressed the view that the underlying inflationary pressure had been increasing in Japan, albeit gradually, given, for example, improvement in the output gap due to the resumption of economic activity. A different member commented that attention was warranted on the fact that, of the CPI items, prices of those that had appeared to be declining due to the effects of COVID-19 had recently turned to an increase. In formulating the October 2021 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices, members discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's economic activity. They concurred that, for the time being, downward pressure stemming from COVID-19 was likely to remain on services consumption, and exports and production were expected to decelerate temporarily due to supply-side constraints. Members shared the recognition that, thereafter, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, mainly due to the widespread vaccinations, the economy was likely to recover, supported by the increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. Furthermore, they agreed that, from the middle of the projection period, as the virtuous cycle from income to spending intensified in the overall economy, including the household sector, Japan's economy was projected to continue growing at a pace, albeit slower, above its potential growth rate. One member pointed out that, as vaccinations progressed and the impact of COVID-19 subsided in Japan, economic activity could be expected to normalize further, including in the face-to-face services sector. A different member expressed the view that economic improvement was expected to become pronounced in the first half of 2022, when vigilance against COVID-19 and the effects of supply-side constraints were projected to wane. Some members were of the view that the timing of an economic recovery was likely to be somewhat delayed compared to the forecast in the July 2021 Outlook Report, affected by the recent supply-side constraints and the spread of the Delta variant during the summer. Meanwhile, one member expressed the recognition that, with a view to achieving sustainable economic growth from a somewhat long-term perspective, it was important to also achieve increases in productivity and wages at small and medium-sized firms, where 70 percent of employees in Japan work, in addition to accelerating digitalization and responses to climate change in the corporate sector. Members concurred that, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue growing, albeit with variation across countries and regions, supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. On this basis, many members expressed the view that this outlook entailed high uncertainties. With regard to the effects of supply-side constraints, one member said that it was necessary to closely monitor whether the prolonged electricity crunch in China would have larger effects on its economy and the global supply chain. A different member commented that attention was warranted on the Chinese economy, where clearer signs of a slowdown had been observed recently, with regard to whether its growth rate would suddenly decelerate. Members agreed that, although Japan's exports, mainly automobile-related ones, were expected to decelerate temporarily due to the effects of supply-side constraints, they were projected to continue increasing as a trend on the back of firm expansion in global demand, particularly for digital-related goods. On the other hand, members shared the view that inbound tourism consumption, which is categorized under services exports, was expected to remain subdued while entry and travel restrictions continued but likely to recover thereafter. Members concurred that an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, mainly for machinery and digital-related investments -- supported by improvement in corporate profits, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures -- although investment by the face-to-face services sector was projected to remain weak for the time being. One member pointed out that it was highly likely that new demand for business fixed investment would materialize due to (1) a decline in real interest rates reflecting an improvement in firms' inflation expectations, (2) an increase in the expected growth rate, (3) digital transformation, and (4) responses to climate-related risks. On the other hand, one member expressed the view that attention should be paid to the possibility that, if there was a deterioration in the outlook for the Chinese economy, in addition to the prolonged supply-side constraints, such developments could lead to, for example, the postponement of business fixed investment. This member also noted that a continued increase in software investment was necessary in order to make up for the delay in digitalization. Members agreed that private consumption, despite being restrained for the time being, mainly by vigilance against COVID-19, was expected to pick up again, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, such as for services. Members agreed that, although Japan's exports, mainly automobile-related ones, were expected to decelerate temporarily due to the effects of supply-side constraints, they were projected to continue increasing as a trend on the back of firm expansion in global demand, particularly for digital-related goods. Members concurred that an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, mainly for machinery and digital-related investments -- supported by improvement in corporate profits, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures -- although investment by the face-to-face services sector was projected to remain weak for the time being. Members agreed that private consumption, despite being restrained for the time being, mainly by vigilance against COVID-19, was expected to pick up again, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, such as for services, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed while public health was being protected, mainly due to the widespread vaccinations. Members shared the view that employee income was likely to increase moderately on the back of a rise in the number of employees that reflected the recovery in domestic and external demand and of wage increases in industries having acute labor shortage. Members concurred that, comparing the projections with those in the July 2021 Outlook Report, the projected growth rate for fiscal 2021 was somewhat lower, mainly for exports and private consumption, but that for fiscal 2022 was somewhat higher. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase moderately in positive territory for the time being, reflecting the rise in energy prices. Members shared the view that, although the output gap -- which captures the utilization of labor and capital -- had been negative recently, it was projected to turn positive with the economy returning to a growth path that outpaced its potential growth rate and continue to expand moderately from the middle of the projection period. Members shared the recognition that, with regard to the risk balance, risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for the time being, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19, but were generally balanced for the middle of the projection period onward. Members agreed that it was important for the Bank to continue to support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets through the three monetary easing measures. Members discussed the effects of the rise in international commodity prices from the viewpoint of conducting monetary policy. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of September 21 and 22, 2021, for release on November 2. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era.