A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, December 18, 2024, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., and on Thursday, December 19, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on October 30 and 31, 2024. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.227 to 0.232 percent. Meanwhile, the Bank had conducted Japanese government bond (JGB) purchases of about 4.9 trillion yen per month, in accordance with the JGB reduction plan decided at the July 2024 meeting. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was more or less unchanged; while generally moving in line with a rise in U.S. stock prices, it had been weighed down by factors such as market concerns over the tariff policy of the incoming U.S. administration. Yields on 10-year JGBs had risen slightly, reflecting market expectations of policy interest rate hikes by the Bank. The liquidity indicators in the JGB markets continued to improve. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, showed an improvement, reaching around the level last seen in the November 2015 survey. In the foreign exchange market, the U.S. dollar/yen exchange rate was more or less unchanged over the intermeeting period, although it had fluctuated somewhat significantly in both directions, reflecting developments in the yield differential between Japan and the United States. The yen had appreciated against the euro. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. The U.S. economy had grown solidly, mainly led by private consumption. European economies had bottomed out, although weakness remained in part. Despite government support, the pace of improvement in the Chinese economy had slowed, with continued downward pressure from adjustments in the real estate and labor markets. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as exports had picked up, mainly led by IT-related goods. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to keep growing moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in the policy conduct of countries around the world, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. long-term interest rates had risen slightly over the intermeeting period, although they had temporarily fluctuated due to speculation over the incoming administration's fiscal policy conduct. European long-term interest rates had declined, as moves to factor in possible policy interest rate cuts by the European Central Bank (ECB) had intensified further, reflecting weak European economic indicators. U.S. stock prices had increased, mainly reflecting higher expectations for the incoming administration's expansionary fiscal policy and deregulation. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had depreciated against the background of the U.S. dollar's appreciation reflecting speculation over policy implementation by the incoming U.S. administration. Crude oil prices had been more or less flat. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Exports had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, it was projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to the recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Corporate profits had been on an improving trend. Business sentiment had stayed at a favorable level. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits continued on an improving trend. Private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased for the July-September quarter of 2024, partly because of a rise in sales of goods due to the effects of hot weather and to purchases in preparation for natural disasters, and with services consumption increasing moderately as a trend. It had then decreased for October relative to that quarter, mainly for nondurable goods, due to a rebound decline following the ending of the boost from the effects of hot weather and stockpiling demand, and to sluggish sales of autumn and winter clothes as a reflection of the lingering heat. Based on anecdotal information from firms and on high-frequency indicators, private consumption since November seemed to have also been on a moderate increasing trend, although some firms had pointed to the effects of consumers' increased thriftiness due to price rises. Consumer sentiment had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue on a moderate increasing trend, with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, it was likely to continue increasing moderately as employee income continued to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees overall had been more or less flat recently: while the number of non-regular employees in industries such as face-to-face services had been on an increasing trend, the number of involuntary non-regular employees had been on a declining trend with labor market conditions tightening. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly, reflecting factors such as the results of the 2024 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. A positive trend in the year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was expected to take hold, albeit with fluctuations. As for prices, commodity prices had declined slightly on the whole. The rate of increase in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had accelerated, due to a rise in rice prices, the effects of the yen's depreciation, and a scaling back of the government's measures to reduce the household burden of higher electricity and gas charges. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high, at around 3 percent recently, mainly on the back of a rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 2.0-2.5 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, although the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the CPI, while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that the output gap would improve and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with the virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period of the October 2024 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook Report), underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Through fiscal 2025, it was expected that a dissipation of the effects of the government's measures pushing down inflation would make a positive contribution to the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food), whereas factors such as the past decline in crude oil and other resource prices would make a negative contribution. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased but remained at low levels on the whole. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The pace of increase in the number of bankruptcies of firms had slowed recently. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been in the range of 1.0-1.5 percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. Members shared the view that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that economic developments since the previous meeting had been generally in line with the Bank's outlook in the October 2024 Outlook Report. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate. Members shared the recognition that exports and industrial production had been more or less flat. Members agreed that business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend with corporate profits being on an improving trend and business sentiment staying at a favorable level. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members concurred that private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 2.0-2.5 percent recently. Members shared the view that, while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually. Members concurred that there remained high uncertainties surrounding Japan's economic activity and prices, including developments in overseas economic activity and prices, developments in commodity prices, and domestic firms' wage- and price-setting behavior. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. At this Monetary Policy Meeting, the Bank completed the 'Review of Monetary Policy from a Broad Perspective,' which it had been conducting since April 2023. While making use of the findings of the review, the Bank, with the price stability target of 2 percent, will continue to conduct monetary policy as appropriate, in response to developments in economic activity and prices as well as financial conditions, from the perspective of sustainable and stable achievement of the target. Voting for the action: UEDA Kazuo, HIMINO Ryozo, UCHIDA Shinichi, ADACHI Seiji, NAKAMURA Toyoaki, NOGUCHI Asahi, NAKAGAWA Junko, and TAKATA Hajime. Voting against the action: TAMURA Naoki. Tamura Naoki considered that, with economic activity and prices developing in line with the Bank's outlook, risks to prices had become more skewed to the upside, and proposed that the Bank set the guideline for money market operations as follows: the Bank would encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.5 percent. The proposal was defeated by a majority vote.