A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, April 27, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:52 p.m., and on Thursday, April 28, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:02 p.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on March 17 and 18, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. Meanwhile, the Bank had conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs through, for example, the fixed-rate method for several consecutive days (fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days) when upward pressure on 10-year JGB yields had increased, mainly reflecting developments in U.S. interest rates. With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: (1) purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Program), with the completion at the end of March 2022 of additional purchases of CP and corporate bonds and fund-provisioning against private debt pledged as collateral under the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing; (2) flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and (3) purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.004 to minus 0.020 percent. General collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.083 to minus 0.264 percent while temporarily showing a somewhat significant decline, mainly because demand from securities companies for the purpose of inventory financing had weakened in reflection of the increase in the Bank's JGB purchases. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX), in line with stock prices in the United States and Europe, was more or less unchanged from the level observed at the time of the previous meeting. Long-term interest rates in Japan had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control, although they had temporarily been subject to increased upward pressure reflecting, for example, developments in such rates in the United States. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been depreciating against the U.S. dollar, mainly due to the rise in U.S. interest rates and growing purchases of U.S. dollars by Japanese importers because of high commodity prices. It also had been depreciating against the euro, reflecting the rise in European interest rates. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. In the wake of the situation surrounding Ukraine, inflationary pressure from a rise in commodity and grain prices had intensified globally, and the effects -- mainly of a reduction in Russia-related trade and of delays and disruptions in logistics -- had been observed in part. In China, where COVID-19 cases had been increasing, restrictions had been imposed on operations at factories and ports in some regions due to strict public health measures, thereby having a wider impact on supply-side constraints through supply chains. These developments had been exerting downward pressure on global economic activity; however, on the whole, with the impact of COVID-19 waning, business sentiment continued to improve and production of the manufacturing industry and trade volume maintained their uptrend. As for the outlook, despite downward pressure from the situation surrounding Ukraine, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually. That said, there were extremely high uncertainties, mainly over developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine and their impact on overseas economies and global financial and capital markets. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. Private consumption continued to increase, amid the withdrawal of accumulated savings and the materialization of pent-up demand. While the number of employees continued to rise, the degree of tightness in the labor market had been increasing further, with the labor force participation rate recovering at only a moderate pace and the job openings-to-applicants ratio and turnover rates remaining high. As for the corporate sector, sentiment kept improving and fixed investment continued to increase. Regarding price developments, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a high increase of around 6.5 percent on a year-on-year basis, mainly due to the effects of the tight supply-demand conditions in the goods market. The European economy had recovered as a trend. Despite downward pressure from a rise in energy prices, private consumption had recovered as a trend, particularly for services consumption, on the back of continued resumption of economic activity. With regard to the corporate sector, in a situation where sentiment kept improving, fixed investment had risen. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had increased clearly in positive territory, mainly reflecting the rise in energy prices, and had reached around 7.5 percent. The Chinese economy had recovered as a trend, but the pace of improvement remained slow. Private consumption had decelerated, pushed down by a rapid spread of COVID-19 and the resultant strict public health measures. In terms of corporate activity, although downward pressure had been exerted on some segments, partly stemming from disruptions in logistics due to the strict public health measures, production had picked up as a trend with power supply issues being generally resolved. Fixed asset investment had picked up, reflecting a boost in infrastructure investment. Emerging economies other than China had picked up on the whole, although some economies had been pushed down by the situation surrounding Ukraine. The NIEs and the ASEAN countries had recovered because exports continued to increase and domestic demand kept improving with the impact of COVID-19 waning. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in advanced economies had risen significantly against the background of some improvement in investors' risk sentiment, which had deteriorated considerably in reflection of the situation surrounding Ukraine, as well as expectations for an earlier-than-anticipated normalization of monetary policy, mainly in the United States. Stock prices were more or less unchanged from those observed at the time of the previous meeting; they had increased temporarily due to improvement in risk sentiment, but then turned to a decline, particularly for IT-related stocks, reflecting the rise in long-term interest rates. Despite prospects of a decline in demand from China, crude oil prices had been at high levels amid lingering concern over a reduction in supply from Russia. With regard to currencies in emerging economies in the foreign exchange market, the Russian ruble had rebounded, partly due to the effects of capital controls, whereas currencies in Latin America, which had appreciated on the back of high commodity prices, had turned to depreciation recently. Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although some weakness had been seen in part, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19 and the rise in commodity prices. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning and with support from an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the rise in commodity prices due to factors such as the situation surrounding Ukraine. Exports and industrial production continued to increase as a trend on the back of the recovery in overseas economies, despite the remaining effects of supply-side constraints. Developments in real exports by goods were as follows. IT-related exports had increased, as exports of goods such as semiconductors for smartphones and data centers had been solid. Exports of capital goods had also increased, albeit with fluctuations, supported by steady machinery investment on a global basis and by strong demand for semiconductor production equipment that reflected the expansion in demand for digital-related goods. On the other hand, exports of automobile-related goods had picked up only moderately because the global supply and demand conditions for semiconductors remained tight and parts procurement difficulties had intensified temporarily due, for example, to the spread of COVID-19 in Japan. With regard to the outlook, exports and industrial production were likely to continue increasing, mainly for automobile-related goods, for which the effects of supply-side constraints were expected to wane, and for digital-related goods, which had seen an expansion in global demand. This was based on the projection that overseas economies would continue recovering on the whole, despite downward pressure from the situation surrounding Ukraine. Corporate profits had improved on the whole, but business sentiment had seen a pause in its improvement recently, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19 and the rise in commodity prices. The diffusion index (DI) for business conditions for all industries and enterprises in the (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) had deteriorated slightly for March 2022 after having improved for six consecutive quarters. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole despite being pushed down by the impact of the rise in commodity prices, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear on the back of accommodative financial conditions and the waning of supply-side constraints. Looking at leading indicators of business fixed investment, machinery orders (private sector, excluding orders for ships and those from electric power companies) had increased, albeit with fluctuations, and construction starts (in terms of planned expenses for private and nonresidential construction) had picked up when fluctuations were smoothed out. Looking at the business fixed investment plan in March, business fixed investment -- including software and research and development (R&D) investments but excluding land purchasing expenses, for all industries and enterprises including financial institutions -- saw a year-on-year rate of increase of 4.9 percent for fiscal 2021, registering clearly positive growth. The plan for fiscal 2022 showed that the rate of increase was expected to be 3.7 percent, indicating a relatively high increase compared with the average of the past March. Private consumption had decreased temporarily due to the impact of a resurgence of COVID-19 at the beginning of 2022, but started picking up again, with downward pressure stemming from COVID-19, particularly on services consumption, waning. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased clearly for the October-December quarter of 2021, but that for the January-February period declined by 3.8 percent relative to the October-December quarter due to the effects of the rapid spread of the Omicron variant and the resultant implementation of priority measures to prevent the spread of disease. While durable goods had been relatively weak on the whole with the effects of supply-side constraints remaining, nondurable goods had been more or less flat on average. Services consumption, particularly of dining-out and domestic travel, had decreased. Looking at recent developments in private consumption based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, services consumption appeared to have picked up again since the second half of February, when the number of confirmed new cases turned to a decline. Goods consumption seemed to have been firm on the whole; sales of clothes and personal effects had recovered gradually, although durable goods consumption continued to be affected by supply-side constraints. Looking at confidence indicators related to private consumption, however, while the waning impact of COVID-19 had contributed to improvement, rises in energy and food prices resulting from the situation surrounding Ukraine had started to create downward pressure. Regarding the outlook, private consumption was expected to be pushed down by deterioration in real income due to rises in energy and food prices. However, it was projected to recover, particularly led by the materialization of pent-up demand, as the situation with COVID-19 improved and as the resumption of economic activity progressed gradually while public health was being protected, mainly due to the widespread vaccinations and the rollout of antiviral medicines. The employment and income situation remained relatively weak on the whole, although improvement had been seen in some parts. The number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey remained at a relatively low level, mainly for non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. With regard to labor market conditions, although the labor force participation rate and unemployment rate remained more or less flat, the employment conditions DI continued to show an increase in net "insufficient." Total cash earnings per employee, particularly scheduled cash earnings, had increased moderately, reflecting a pick-up in overall economic activity. With regard to the outlook, employee income was likely to continue increasing moderately on the back of economic improvement and see a clear rise in its level. As for prices, international commodity prices had been at high levels against the background of remaining supply concerns that stemmed from the situation surrounding Ukraine. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier continued to increase clearly, reflecting developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food), despite being affected by the reduction in mobile phone charges, had been in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent, reflecting price rises in energy and other items. That in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) had been at around 1 percent when excluding temporary factors such as the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations, particularly short-term ones, had risen. Specifically, short-term inflation expectations had increased clearly on the whole, mainly due to the effects of the recent rise in commodity prices. Medium- to long-term expectations had also risen, albeit at a moderate pace relative to short-term ones. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase temporarily to around 2 percent due to the impact of the significant rise in energy prices and a pass-through of raw material cost increases to food in particular, with the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges dissipating. Short-term inflation expectations had increased clearly on the whole, mainly due to the effects of the recent rise in commodity prices. Medium- to long-term expectations had also risen, albeit at a moderate pace relative to short-term ones. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase temporarily to around 2 percent due to the impact of the significant rise in energy prices and a pass-through of raw material cost increases to food in particular. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole, as precautionary demand for liquidity due to the impact of COVID-19 had generally subsided, although demand for working capital had been seen, reflecting raw material cost increases. Financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to the loans outstanding being at a high level and to an increase in net income from fees and commissions. Profits of regional banks had also been firm, mainly owing to the amount outstanding of loans related to COVID-19 being at a high level. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Members shared the view that the U.S. economy had recovered. Members shared the view that the European economy had recovered as a trend. Members agreed that the Chinese economy had recovered as a trend, but the pace of improvement remained slow. Members concurred that overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole for the time being. Members shared the view that the economy had picked up as a trend, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food), despite being affected by the reduction in mobile phone charges, had been in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent, reflecting price rises in energy and other items. Members agreed that inflation expectations, particularly short-term ones, had risen. One member expressed the view that upward pressure on wages was expected to strengthen amid intensified labor shortage since services consumption was likely to recover while the increase in labor supply of women and seniors was projected to generally peak out. Members agreed that, comparing the projections with those in the January 2022 Outlook Report, the projected economic growth rates for fiscal 2021 and 2022 were lower due to the effects of such factors as the resurgence of COVID-19, the rise in commodity prices, and the slowdown in overseas economies, but the rate for fiscal 2023 was higher, partly owing to a rebound from the lower projection in the previous fiscal year. Members then discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's price developments. They agreed that, due to the significant rise in energy prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase temporarily to around 2 percent in fiscal 2022. Members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) was expected to moderately increase in positive territory on the back of improvement in the output gap, rises in medium- to long-term inflation expectations and wage inflation. One member expressed the view that the underlying inflation rate was likely to rise moderately due to increasing moves by firms to pass on the surge in commodity prices to retail prices. Members discussed risks specific to prices and shared the recognition that, depending on the degree of upward pressure from raw material costs and on developments in firms' inflation expectations, the pass-through of cost increases to selling prices could accelerate by more than expected. Members shared the view that it was important for the Bank to continue to support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets. They shared the recognition that there was no change in the Bank's stance that, for the time being, it would closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Members shared the recognition that, from a longer-term perspective, if downward pressure on financial institutions' profits became prolonged, there would be risks of both a gradual pullback in financial intermediation activities and of increased vulnerability of the financial system. Since the output gap was still negative and there was a significant risk of firms becoming more cautious in making business decisions, it was appropriate for the Bank to make clear its stance that it would continue with the current monetary easing and thereby support the economy. One member expressed the recognition that the challenge of monetary policy in Japan was not to curb inflation, as in the case of the United States and Europe, but to overcome inflation that was still too low. A different member commented that, with the addition of Russia's invasion of Ukraine to the existing downside risks to the economy, the situation had further changed significantly; against this backdrop, it was not appropriate for the Bank to make any big changes to its monetary policy stance. One member expressed the recognition that it was necessary for the Bank to maintain the current monetary easing in order to avoid the changes that had started to be observed in households' and firms' inflation expectations ending up being temporary and to achieve the price stability target in a stable and sustainable manner. On the other hand, a different member pointed out that the Bank should strengthen its monetary easing stance with a view to improving the output gap and inflation expectations, and thereby achieve an economic recovery and the price stability target early. Meanwhile, one member said that, in a situation where achieving the price stability target of 2 percent during the projection period was difficult, it was necessary for the Bank to carefully outline the significance of the target and the path toward its achievement, and continue to bear in mind that, as monetary easing became further prolonged, its sustainability would be increasingly important. Next, from the viewpoint of clarifying the Bank's monetary easing stance, members discussed whether they could devise some ways to improve the guideline for market operations. Some members pointed out that, when long-term interest rates became exposed to upward pressure, mainly due to overseas factors, the Bank had conducted fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days with a view to firmly setting an upper limit on the range of 10-year JGB yield fluctuations; however, some financial and capital market participants had been attempting to predict the future course of the Bank's policy stance based on whether or not fixed-rate purchase operations were conducted. On this basis, a few of these members said that, with a view to clarifying the Bank's stance to date of not accepting the long-term interest rate exceeding 0.25 percent and to avoiding a situation where daily operations were unnecessarily factored in by the market, it could be an option to make an announcement in advance that the Bank would conduct fixed-rate purchase operations at 0.25 percent every business day. One member also noted that the Bank should maintain monetary easing in a straightforward manner until the price stability target, accompanied by a virtuous cycle in which both prices and wages rise, was achieved in a sustainable and stable manner. On this basis, the member continued that, in order to communicate such a policy stance without misunderstanding, it would be effective to clarify the Bank's stance that it would conduct fixed-rate purchase operations in a straightforward manner. A different member also expressed the view that reiterating the Bank's stance of continuing market operations in line with the target level of the long-term interest rate was likely to contribute to the formation of an appropriate yield curve and clarification of its accommodative policy stance. One member said that, given the current situation where various speculations over 10-year JGB yields had arisen, mainly among overseas market participants, and considering that such situation had been observed for some time, it would be effective to clarify how the Bank would conduct fixed-rate purchase operations. The member then added that it was also necessary to pay attention to the effects this would have on market functioning. Based on this discussion, members shared the view that, from the standpoint of firmly setting an upper limit on the range of 10-year JGB yield fluctuations and dispelling market speculation over the Bank's policy stance, it would be appropriate to offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent every business day through fixed-rate purchase operations, unless it was highly likely that no bids would be submitted. They continued that this would also contribute to ensuring stability in financial markets. Meanwhile, members also discussed the relationship between monetary policy and foreign exchange rates. First, some members expressed the view that it was desirable for foreign exchange rates to move stably, reflecting economic and financial fundamentals. A few members then expressed the recognition that excessive fluctuations in the foreign exchange market over a short period of time, such as those observed recently, would raise uncertainties about the future and make it more difficult for firms to formulate their business plans, for example. On this basis, some members pointed out that it was necessary for the Bank to clearly communicate to the public that the aim of monetary policy conduct was to fulfill its mandate of achieving price stability, rather than to control foreign exchange rates. On this point, one member noted that, in the conduct of monetary policy, the effects that movements in commodity prices or foreign exchange rates had on economic activity and prices, rather than the movements themselves, warranted consideration. A different member expressed the view that the yen's depreciation worked positively in the current situation where the output gap and the unemployment gap were still large in absolute terms and underlying inflation was extremely low. One member -- while agreeing that the yen's depreciation could contribute to raising economic growth -- pointed out that the Bank should also clearly communicate to the public that (1) the effects of the yen's depreciation vary depending on the type of business or economic entity and (2) sharp fluctuations in foreign exchange rates would raise uncertainties about the future. Meanwhile, as for the background to the yen's recent depreciation, one member commented that one reason for this was the difference between economic conditions in Japan and those in the United States and Europe. A different member expressed the view that the yen's depreciation was also attributable to growing purchases of U.S. dollars by Japanese importers, amid an overall appreciation of currencies in commodity-exporting economies. With respect to yield curve control, members shared the recognition that the JGB yield curve had been formed smoothly in a manner consistent with the guideline for market operations. Based on the above discussions, regarding the guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period, most members expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to set the following guideline. First, as for the short-term policy interest rate, it would apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. Second, as for the long-term interest rate, the Bank would purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. These members continued that, in order to implement this guideline for market operations, it was appropriate that the Bank offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent every business day for an unlimited amount through the fixed-rate method, unless it was highly likely that no bids would be submitted. On this point, one member expressed the opinion that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. With regard to asset purchases other than JGB purchases, members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to implement the following guideline. First, it would purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. Second, the Bank would purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amounts outstanding would gradually return to pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. With respect to the future conduct of monetary policy, members shared the view that the Bank would (1) continue with QQE with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it was necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner, and (2) continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeded 2 percent and stayed above the target in a stable manner. Regarding its policy stance for the time being, members agreed that, while closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19, the Bank would support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets, and would not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Based on this, most members shared the view that, as for policy rates, the Bank would expect short- and long-term interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. On this point, one member was of the opinion that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target. The representative from the Ministry of Finance made the following remarks. (1) At the Group of Twenty (G20) and Group of Seven (G7) meetings in April 2022, member countries discussed the impact of Russia's aggression against Ukraine on the global economy; it was pointed out by Japan that the aggression had led to, for example, surges in energy and food prices and supply-chain disruptions. (2) The government formulated on April 26 the comprehensive emergency measures to counter soaring crude oil and other prices under the COVID-19 pandemic, so that it could respond urgently and agilely to the soaring that resulted from the situation surrounding Ukraine and ensure the recovery in socio-economic activities from the COVID-19 pandemic. (3) The government expected the Bank to conduct appropriate monetary policy toward achieving price stability in a sustainable manner while taking the impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine and COVID-19 into account and cooperating with the government. The representative from the Cabinet Office made the following remarks. (1) The Japanese economy had shown signs of a pick-up as the severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 was easing. (2) The government would swiftly implement the comprehensive emergency measures with a total project scale of about 13 trillion yen to respond urgently and agilely to the impact on people's daily lives and economic activity of soaring crude oil and other prices. (3) In addition, the government would steadily proceed with discussions to compile a grand design and an action plan of a new form of capitalism, as well as the Basic Policy on Economic and Fiscal Management and Reform 2022; through these efforts, it would address medium- to long-term issues and realize a virtuous cycle of growth and distribution. (4) The government expected that the Bank would thoroughly explain to the public its intentions behind the decision at this meeting to clarify how it conducted fixed-rate purchase operations and would continue to conduct appropriate monetary policy based on developments in economic activity and prices as well as financial conditions. A. Vote on the Guideline for Market Operations The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period will be as follows. (1) The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. (2) The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. In order to implement the above guideline for market operations, the Bank will offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent every business day for an unlimited amount through the fixed-rate method, unless it is highly likely that no bids will be submitted. Votes for the proposal: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi, Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi, Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi, Mr. ADACHI Seiji, Mr. NAKAMURA Toyoaki, Mr. NOGUCHI Asahi, and Ms. NAKAGAWA Junko. Votes against the proposal: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. B. Vote on the Guideline for Asset Purchases The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The guideline for asset purchases other than JGB purchases will be as follows. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amounts outstanding would gradually return to pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. For the time being, while closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19, the Bank will support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets, and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary; it also expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Voting against the action: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target.