A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, October 30, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:54 p.m., and on Tuesday, October 31, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:20 p.m. The Bank had been conducting market operations, including purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), in accordance with the guideline for market operations and the guideline for conduct of yield curve control, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on September 21 and 22, 2023. Specifically, it had carried out outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 1.0 percent through the fixed-rate method and fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. Moreover, the Bank had nimbly conducted unscheduled purchases of JGBs and the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral with a loan duration of five years through the variable-rate method. With these market operations, long-term interest rates had been at levels consistent with the Bank's guideline and the shape of the JGB yield curve continued to be generally smooth. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guidelines for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.010 to minus 0.064 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.094 to minus 0.551 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had decreased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had declined. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had increased, mainly reflecting a rise in U.S. long-term interest rates, and had been in the range of around 0.725 to 0.880 percent. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets continued to improve, although they generally remained in a state of deterioration. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar as the yield differential between Japan and the United States had widened due to a substantial rise in U.S. long-term interest rates. The yen had also depreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. The U.S. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB). The Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly owing to the effects of a slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. The pace of improvement in emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had slowed on the whole; although domestic demand continued to improve moderately in these economies, exports had slowed. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being. Thereafter, they were expected to grow moderately, albeit with variation across countries and regions. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, in the United States, long-term interest rates had risen significantly with market participants expecting prolonged monetary tightening by the Federal Reserve and a deterioration in the supply and demand conditions of U.S. Treasury securities. Stock prices had declined marginally on the whole, restrained by the rise in long-term interest rates, although prices for high-tech-related stocks had risen due to expectations of an improvement in their corporate profits. In Europe, long-term interest rates had also risen in line with those in the United States. Stock prices in Europe had decreased, mainly due to weak corporate results and increased tension over the situation in the Middle East. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had depreciated, in reflection of the rise in U.S. interest rates. Even while tension over the situation in the Middle East had increased, crude oil prices had declined over the intermeeting period since the market had mainly reflected the facts that some oil-producing economies had shown a stance of stabilizing the crude oil market and that U.S. crude oil inventories had risen. Japan's economy had recovered moderately. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, as well as by factors such as accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were projected to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, as overseas economies grew moderately, albeit with variation across countries and regions, they were likely to return to an uptrend. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole, and business sentiment had improved moderately. In this situation, business fixed investment had increased moderately. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, such investment was expected to continue increasing. Private consumption had increased steadily at a moderate pace, despite being affected by price rises. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had been on an increasing trend until August 2023, albeit with monthly fluctuations. With regard to private consumption since September 2023, based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, this seemed to have continued on a moderate uptrend as the income situation had improved, and pent-up demand had also provided support. Consumer sentiment remained at an improved level on the back of a rise in income. Regarding the outlook, although such consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to keep increasing moderately with nominal employee income continuing to improve, and partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had risen moderately, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, with both these industries facing severe labor shortages. With economic activity normalizing, the number of non-regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, mainly in the wholesale and retail trade as well as the face-to-face services industries. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity and the results of the annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. Partly as inflation declined, the year-on-year rate of decline in real employee income was projected to follow a decelerating trend; thereafter, the rate of change was likely to gradually turn positive. As for prices, commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole. With the impact of past high commodity prices gradually waning, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had been more or less flat, partly due to an expansion of the government's gasoline subsidies. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be above 2 percent through fiscal 2024, mainly due to the remaining effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices and the effects of the recent rise in crude oil prices. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. With a high level of demand for working capital stemming from elevated raw material costs, firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 2 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been at around 5.5 percent. That in the money stock had been at around 2.5 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly owing to increases in interest on loans as well as income from fees and commissions. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had been firm as the amount outstanding of bank lending continued to increase, although they had decreased relative to last year, partly owing to a decline in profits from investment trusts due to cancellations. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels. With regard to the financial cycle, all of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report had shown neither an overheating nor a contraction of financial activities. While the index for corporate credit had been at a relatively high level, this was mainly due to firms' behavior aimed at securing ample cash reserves, and therefore it did not signal any overheating of financial activities. However, it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether the amount of credit extended by financial institutions would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. As part of the Review of Monetary Policy from a Broad Perspective, the staff was working on a research paper that described the basic thinking on central bank finances and monetary policy conduct. The research paper would provide an overview of the following points: (1) central banks' balance sheets and profit structures; (2) the mechanisms through which the expansion and contraction of a central bank's balance sheet affects such factors as its profits; (3) the debate over central bank finances; and (4) recent developments in the finances of foreign central banks. It would then summarize (5) the basic thinking on central bank finances and monetary policy conduct. Specifically, the basic thinking was described as follows. Under a fiat money system, confidence in the currency is not directly ensured by the assets held by the central bank or its financial soundness, but by the appropriate conduct of monetary policy with the aim of achieving price stability. Based on this premise, central banks are generally set up in such a way that they make profits from a somewhat longer-term perspective and, moreover, can supply their own means of payment and settlement. Therefore, even if the central bank temporarily makes losses or has negative equity, this does not impede its ability to conduct monetary policy. That said, this does not mean that the central bank can run up unlimited losses and negative equity. If the central bank's financial risks become a matter of undue attention and give rise to unnecessary confusion over monetary policy, there is a risk that this could lead to a decline in its credibility. Therefore, ensuring the soundness of the central bank's finances is important. This paper was expected to be released within 2023. In addition, the staff would exchange views on these topics with experts at the first workshop regarding the review from a broad perspective, scheduled to be held on December 2023. Based on the above staff reports, members discussed the Bank's basic thinking on central bank finances and monetary policy conduct and other related matters. Members shared the recognition that, with regard to the relationship between central bank finances and monetary policy conduct, it was appropriate for the Bank to continue with conducting proper policies based on the basic thinking that the staff had summarized, while also paying attention to financial soundness. On this basis, some members expressed the view that, although the Bank's profits could be subject to downward pressure temporarily, it was important to explain clearly to the public that such developments in profits would not set a limit on the Bank's conduct of appropriate monetary policy to achieve price stability. A few members expressed the view that it was necessary to carefully explain that central bank finances were in some ways different from those of private financial institutions or business corporations; for example, central banks generate seigniorage and can supply their own means of payment and settlement. One of these members added that, although profits and capital had declined at central banks such as those in the United States and Europe due to policy interest rate hikes, this had not affected their monetary policy conduct. In addition, this member pointed out that central banks' large-scale monetary easing should not be assessed merely on the basis of its effects on central banks' profits, but should be assessed in consideration of the effects on economic activity and prices as a whole. A few members expressed the view that it was extremely important to summarize the Bank's basic thinking and make it public at this point to avoid a situation where a central bank's financial risks became a matter of undue attention and gave rise to unnecessary confusion over monetary policy. A few other members pointed out that providing a more concrete explanation on appropriate occasions in the future could be one option. With regard to global financial and capital markets, members concurred that market sentiment had become cautious as attention had been drawn to uncertainties over the U.S. and European monetary policies, as well as the outlook for the global economy. Many members mentioned the surge in U.S. long-term interest rates and expressed the view that future developments in these rates warranted close monitoring. One member said that due attention should be paid to the continuing outflows of portfolio investment from emerging economies. Members shared the recognition that the pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. One member expressed the view that the variation in the pace of recovery across countries and regions had become larger. Members agreed that the U.S. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Some members pointed out that uncertainties regarding economic developments remained, despite overall firmness in U.S. economic indicators and heightened expectations for a soft landing. Members shared the recognition that European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the ECB. A few members expressed the view that economic indicators, including GDP statistics and the Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), had been relatively weak and showed signs of stagnation in these economies. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly owing to the effects of the slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. Members agreed that the U.S. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Members shared the view that European economies kept slowing moderately. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly owing to the effects of the slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. Members agreed that Japan's economy had recovered moderately. Members concurred that private consumption had increased steadily at a moderate pace, despite being affected by price rises. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be above 2 percent through fiscal 2024. Members shared the recognition that, comparing the projections with those in the July 2023 Outlook Report, the projected real GDP growth rate for fiscal 2023 was higher. Members shared the view that, toward the end of the projection period, in order for the outlook that underlying inflation would increase toward 2 percent to materialize, it needed to be accompanied by an intensified virtuous cycle between wages and prices. Members shared the recognition that risks to economic activity were generally balanced for fiscal 2023 and 2024 but were skewed to the downside for fiscal 2025. Members shared the recognition that risks to prices were skewed to the upside for fiscal 2023. Members agreed that it was important to closely monitor whether a virtuous cycle between wages and prices would intensify. Members agreed that sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target was not yet envisaged with sufficient certainty, and thus the Bank needed to patiently continue with monetary easing. Members agreed that long-term interest rates had been at levels consistent with the guideline for market operations. Members pointed out that long-term interest rates had been under upward pressure. Members recognized that continued strict control of long-term interest rates could entail large side effects on financial markets and corporate financing. Members expressed the view that it was important to let interest rates be determined by the market as much as possible. Members recognized that the rise in interest rates could affect firms' price-setting behavior. Members agreed that continuing monetary easing was important to support wage increases. Members recognized that the recent rise in interest rates had begun to affect firms' long-term financing.