A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, July 27, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:06 p.m., and on Friday, July 28, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:21 p.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on June 15 and 16, 2023, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for conduct of yield curve control decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.5 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. With these market operations, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent. The shape of the JGB yield curve since the previous meeting continued to be generally smooth. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.009 to minus 0.077 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.067 to minus 0.095 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat over the intermeeting period. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was more or less unchanged. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets generally remained in a state of deterioration compared with those seen in the first half of 2022. However, they continued to improve relative to their deterioration from the end of 2022 to around mid-March this year. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been more or less flat against the U.S. dollar. Meanwhile, it had depreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. The U.S. economy remained on a slowing trend in reflection of continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, but firmness continued to be seen in private consumption, particularly for services. European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine, although concerns over energy supply had eased compared with a while ago. The pace of pick-up in the Chinese economy had slowed, mainly owing to the effects of the slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market, although services consumption had been firm as the normalization of economic activity had progressed. In emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, the pace of improvement had slowed on the whole; although domestic demand continued to improve moderately in these economies, exports had slowed, particularly of IT-related goods. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being, with inflationary pressure persisting on a global basis as well as the continuing impact of policy interest rate hikes by central banks. Overseas economies were expected to pick up gradually thereafter as the effects of containment of inflation through monetary tightening materialized. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in global inflationary pressure, the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine, and developments in the Chinese economy. With respect to overseas financial markets, in the United States, as stronger-than-expected economic indicators and weaker-than-expected price indicators had been released alternately, long-term interest rates had risen somewhat over the intermeeting period, and stock prices had also increased. On the other hand, long-term interest rates and stock prices in Europe were generally unchanged. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had depreciated overall, due primarily to the significant devaluation of some currencies. Crude oil prices had risen, mainly reflecting media reports on production cuts by some oil-producing economies. Japan's economy had recovered moderately. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, as well as by factors such as accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were projected to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, they were likely to return to an uptrend with overseas economies picking up. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole, and business sentiment had improved moderately. In this situation, business fixed investment had increased moderately. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, such investment was expected to continue increasing. Private consumption had increased steadily at a moderate pace, despite being affected by price rises. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had been on an increasing trend until May 2023, albeit with monthly fluctuations. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption, particularly for services, seemed to have continued on a moderate uptrend since June 2023, although it had been affected by price rises and severe weather. Even amid ongoing high prices, private consumption had seen firmness thus far, as consumer sentiment followed an improving trend with a moderate pick-up in the income environment. Regarding the outlook, although such consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue increasing moderately with nominal employee income continuing to improve, and partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had risen moderately, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced severe labor shortages. When fluctuations were smoothed out, the number of non-regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, mainly in industries such as face-to-face services. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity. Corporate managers' responses to the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations showed that wage increases, including regular seniority-based ones, had risen significantly from around 2 percent for 2022 to around 3.5 percent for 2023, a level last seen in 1993. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. Partly as inflation declined, the year-on-year rate of decline in real employee income was projected to follow a decelerating trend; thereafter, the rate of change was likely to gradually turn positive. As for prices, commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole. With the impact of past high commodity prices gradually waning, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had declined. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Inflation expectations had shown some upward movements again. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was expected to decelerate, with a waning of the effects of the pass-through led by the past rise in import prices. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of the recovery in economic activity and past high raw material costs. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. In the corporate bond market, issuance conditions had been favorable on the whole, as supply-demand conditions had shown some improvement. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds continued to decelerate, registering around 1.5 percent. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased recently but remained at a low level. Firms' financial positions had improved on the back of the recovery in economic activity. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of decline in the monetary base had decelerated due to the waning effects of a decline in the amount outstanding of funds provided through the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). The year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been at around 2.5 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly owing to an increase in net interest income on the back of a rise in loans outstanding and to an increase in income from fees and commissions, although realized gains/losses on securities holdings had deteriorated, reflecting the rise in overseas interest rates. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Despite having been pushed down by deterioration in realized gains/losses on securities holdings that reflected the rise in overseas interest rates, profits of regional banks had increased relative to last year, supported by a decline in credit costs, as well as by improvements in pre-provision net revenue (PPNR) excluding trading income that were due mainly to a reduction in overhead costs. Profits of banks had decreased relative to the previous year on the back of deterioration in realized gains/losses on securities holdings. Regional and banks' credit costs had been at low levels. With regard to the financial cycle, of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, three -- including one indicating the amount of financial institutions' credit relative to real economic activity -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. This was mainly due to firms' behavior aimed at securing ample cash reserves, and therefore did not signal any overheating of financial activities. However, it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether the amount of credit extended by financial institutions would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. Business fixed investment had increased moderately, with corporate profits being at high levels on the whole. A few members expressed the view that the background factors to firms' solid appetite for business fixed investment were accommodative financial conditions, such as low levels of real interest rates, and high levels of corporate profits. Members concurred that private consumption had increased steadily at a moderate pace, despite being affected by price rises. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently owing to the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, as well as by factors such as accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures. Members concurred that business fixed investment was expected to continue increasing. Members agreed that, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue increasing moderately. With regard to the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy), many members expressed the view that the year-on-year rate of increase was projected to be at around 3 percent for fiscal 2023 and in the range of 1.5-2.0 percent for fiscal 2024 and 2025. Members concurred that there were extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economic activity and prices. Members agreed that risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for fiscal 2023 but were generally balanced thereafter. Members agreed that risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for fiscal 2023 but were generally balanced thereafter. They also concurred that risks to prices were skewed to the upside for fiscal 2023 and 2024. Members agreed that, given developments in economic activity and prices, it was important to continue with the current monetary easing, and by doing so, achieve the price stability target in a sustainable and stable manner, accompanied by wage increases. Many members pointed out that, in terms of the outlook for prices, sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target, accompanied by wage increases, had not yet come in sight, and thus the Bank needed to patiently continue with monetary easing. Members agreed that long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent. Most members shared the view that, given extremely high uncertainties for prices, in order for the Bank to sustain monetary easing under the current framework of yield curve control, it was appropriate to allow at this meeting greater flexibility in the conduct of yield curve control. When long-term interest rates were in the range of 0.5 to 1.0 percent, the Bank would contain excessive upward pressure on the rates by making nimble responses. Most members shared the view that the responses presented by the staff regarding the conduct of yield curve control with greater flexibility and its specifics were appropriate. Some members expressed the view that it was appropriate to maintain the range of 10-year JGB yield fluctuations at around plus and minus 0.5 percentage points from the target level. Members concurred that it was appropriate to maintain the current guideline for asset purchases other than JGB purchases. Members shared the basic stance that, with extremely high uncertainties surrounding economies and financial markets at home and abroad, the Bank would patiently continue with monetary easing. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around 0 percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will continue to allow 10-year JGB yields to fluctuate in the range of around plus and minus 0.5 percentage points from the target level, while it will conduct yield curve control with greater flexibility, regarding the upper and lower bounds of the range as references, not as rigid limits, in its market operations. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board decided the text of 'The Bank's View' by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of June 15 and 16, 2023, for release on August 2. The Policy Board approved unanimously the dates of the Monetary Policy Meetings to be held in 2024 and agreed to make this public after the meeting. The Bank will continue with QQE with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will patiently continue with monetary easing while nimbly responding to developments in economic activity and prices as well as financial conditions.