A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, January 23, 2025, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:53 p.m., and on Friday, January 24, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:16 p.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on December 18 and 19, 2024. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.226 to 0.232 percent. Meanwhile, in December 2024, the Bank had conducted Japanese government bond (JGB) purchases of about 4.9 trillion yen per month. In January 2025, it had cut down the monthly purchase amount by about 400 billion yen, to about 4.5 trillion yen per month; this was in accordance with the JGB reduction plan decided at the July 2024 meeting. The Bank had conducted purchases of CP and corporate bonds in accordance with the decision made at the March 2024 meeting. In the money market, the uncollateralized overnight call rate had been at around 0.25 percent. The general collateral (GC) repo rate had been at around the same level as the uncollateralized overnight call rate. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was more or less unchanged: although developments such as investment flows associated with the renewal after the turn of 2025 of annual tax-free investment quotas under the Nippon Individual Savings Account (NISA) program had been observed, attention continued to be drawn to, for example, speculation over the policy conduct of the new U.S. administration. Yields on 10-year JGBs had risen, against the background of market participants' views on the future conduct of monetary policy and the rise in U.S. interest rates. The liquidity indicators in the JGB markets had deteriorated somewhat toward the end of 2024, with a decline in transaction volume, but had improved after the turn of January 2025. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. The U.S. economy had grown firmly, mainly led by private consumption. European economies had bottomed out, although weakness remained in part. The pace of improvement in the Chinese economy had been on a slowing trend, with continued downward pressure from adjustments in the real estate and labor markets, although government policies had pushed up the economy recently. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as exports had picked up, mainly led by IT-related goods. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to keep growing moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in the policy conduct of countries around the world, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. Overseas financial markets remained stable on the whole after the new U.S. administration took office on January 20, 2025. U.S. long-term interest rates had risen slightly, reflecting factors such as speculation over the new administration's policy conduct and solid economic indicators. European long-term interest rates had risen significantly, mainly reflecting the rise in U.S. interest rates. U.S. stock prices had increased slightly, mainly on the back of expectations for policies under the new administration, although the increase in prices for some stocks, including high-tech-related stocks, had been weighed down by the rise in interest rates. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had depreciated against the background of the rise in U.S. interest rates and the U.S. dollar's appreciation. Crude oil prices had risen due to the latest sanctions imposed on Russia by the United States and the severe winter weather in the United States. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Exports had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, it was projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to the recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Corporate profits had been on an improving trend. Business sentiment had stayed at a favorable level. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits continued on an improving trend. Private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased for the July-September quarter of 2024, partly because of a rise in sales of goods due to the effects of hot weather and stockpiling demand to prepare for natural disasters, and with services consumption increasing moderately as a trend. The index had then decreased slightly on average for the October-November period relative to the July-September quarter, mainly for nondurable goods, partly because of a reactionary decline to the rise in sales of goods due to the effects of the hot weather and the stockpiling demand. Based on anecdotal information from firms and on high-frequency indicators, private consumption since December seemed to have also been on a moderate increasing trend, although some firms had pointed to the effects of consumers' increased thriftiness due to price rises. Consumer sentiment had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue on a moderate increasing trend, with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, private consumption was likely to continue increasing moderately as employee income continued to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees overall had been more or less flat recently: while the number of non-regular employees in industries such as face-to-face services had been on an increasing trend, the number of involuntary non-regular employees had been on a declining trend with labor market conditions tightening. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. A positive trend in the year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was expected to take hold, albeit with fluctuations. As for prices, commodity prices had risen slightly on the whole. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI, adjusted for the effects of seasonal changes in electricity rates) relative to three months earlier had been positive, in the range of 1.0-1.5 percent, mainly reflecting the impact of the yen's depreciation. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high, at around 3 percent recently, mainly on the back of a rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 3 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, and as the government's measures to reduce the household burden of higher energy prices had been scaled back, although the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the CPI, while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that, with a growing sense of labor shortages, the output gap would improve and medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with the virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period of the January 2025 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook Report), underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Through fiscal 2025, rice prices were likely to be at high levels and the effects of the government's measures pushing down inflation would dissipate, and these factors were expected to make a positive contribution to the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food). Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased but remained at low levels on the whole. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 4.5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The pace of increase in the number of bankruptcies of firms had slowed recently. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been in the range of 1.0-1.5 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, owing in particular to a rise in net interest income, mainly composed of interest on loans, and to an increase in net non-interest income, such as fees and commissions. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had been firm, mainly on the back of the rise in net interest income. With regard to the financial cycle, of the 14 Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, 12 showed neither an overheating nor a contraction of financial activities, and two -- including one indicating stock prices -- showed deviations from the trends, toward overheating. Regarding the financial gap, the positive gap remained narrower than a while ago, and there had been no overheating of financial activities overall. However, attention continued to be warranted on the pace of increase in stock and real estate prices, and it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether financial activities would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. In light of recent economic and financial developments, the staff considered it appropriate that new loan disbursements under the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending would not be made after the scheduled deadline of June 30, 2025. The staff's examination of the possible impact of the termination of the measure on factors such as financial institutions' financing and market interest rates suggested that significant issues were unlikely to arise. On this basis, with the amount outstanding of loans disbursed under the fund-provisioning measure being at a high level, it would be appropriate that the Bank, with the aim of facilitating the smooth termination of the measure, amend the "Principal Terms and Conditions for the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending Conducted through the Loan Support Program," and implement a transitional measure that would allow counterparties to roll over up to 50 percent of the amount of loans maturing over the period of six months following the deadline for loan disbursement -- until December 31, 2025 -- into one-year loans. Members agreed that, as explained by the staff, it was appropriate that (1) the Bank would not make new loan disbursements under the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending after June 30, 2025, and (2) in doing so, it would implement a transitional measure over the period of six months until December 31, 2025. One member commented that, as seen in, for example, financial institutions' active lending stance, the fund-provisioning measure had already sufficiently served its intended purpose. The member then expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to terminate the measure at this stage, given the considerably strong effects of its support for financial institutions' financing. One member pointed out that, during the course of the Bank's balance sheet reduction, it was important to monitor developments in financial institutions' financing more carefully. Members voted unanimously to approve the amendment to the "Principal Terms and Conditions for the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending Conducted through the Loan Support Program." It was confirmed that this would be made public after the meeting. Members shared the view that market sentiment continued to be at an improved level compared with a while ago, and remained stable on the whole after the new U.S. administration took office on January 20, 2025. Members shared the recognition that overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. Members agreed that the U.S. economy had grown firmly, mainly led by private consumption. Some members pointed out that concerns that had emerged in summer 2024 over a rapid deceleration in the economy had eased, considering, for example, the recent firmness in indicators relating to private consumption and employment. One of these members noted that the Federal Reserve could conduct its monetary policy with more leeway, given the ongoing disinflation process with firmness in the real economy. This member then added that it was highly likely that weakness in the employment statistics -- which was one of the causes of the global decline in stock prices in summer 2024 -- had been a temporary fluctuation. In relation to this point, a different member expressed the view that there was a growing likelihood that the U.S. economy would accelerate again in the near future, rather than making a soft landing, as seen in the possibility that the labor market would bottom out. This member pointed out that, in this situation, there was an expectation that the Federal Reserve would temporarily pause its policy interest rate cuts. Meanwhile, one member noted that there were high expectations for the U.S. economy to make a soft landing. That said, the member continued that, with high uncertainties surrounding the policy conduct of the U.S. administration, attention was warranted on the possibility that, if the inflation rate or interest rates rose further, this would push down private consumption -- which had supported the economy -- through a decline in stock prices. Members shared the recognition that European economies had bottomed out, although weakness remained in part. As background to the weakness in European economies, one member pointed to, for example, continued high energy costs and cost increases due to the high wage growth rate. One member noted that, of European economies, Germany and France in particular had seen some weakness. Members shared the view that the pace of improvement in the Chinese economy had been on a slowing trend, with continued downward pressure from adjustments in the real estate and labor markets, although government policies had pushed up the economy recently. One member pointed out that adjustments in the real estate and labor markets were still taking place. The member then expressed the view that, with sluggish domestic demand, coupled with the Chinese yuan's depreciation, the Chinese economy could become more dependent on exports. Members shared the recognition that emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as exports had picked up, mainly led by IT-related goods. One member expressed the view that there was a growing likelihood that the U.S. economy would accelerate again in the near future, rather than making a soft landing, as seen in the possibility that the labor market would bottom out. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. Members shared the view that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that exports had been more or less flat. Members shared the view that industrial production had been more or less flat. Members agreed that business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend with corporate profits improving and business sentiment staying at a favorable level. Members concurred that private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 3 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases. Members shared the view that inflation expectations had risen moderately. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as the virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Members agreed that, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, Japan's exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to the recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Members shared the view that industrial production was likely to return to an uptrend, mainly due to the recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Members concurred that business fixed investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits continued on an improving trend. Members agreed that, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue on a moderate increasing trend, with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Members shared the view that nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of the acceleration in nominal wage growth. Members shared the view that the medians of the Policy Board members' forecasts for the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) were in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent for fiscal 2024, at around 2.5 percent for fiscal 2025, and at around 2 percent for fiscal 2026. Members shared the recognition that, in particular, with firms' behavior shifting more toward raising wages and prices recently, exchange rate developments were, compared to the past, more likely to affect prices. Based on the above deliberations, most members expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to raise the policy interest rate by 0.25 percentage points to around 0.5 percent at this meeting from the perspective of sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target of 2 percent. The interest rate applied to the complementary deposit facility will be 0.5 percent per annum. The basic discount rate and the basic loan rate will be 0.75 percent per annum. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of December 18 and 19, 2024, for release on January 29, 2025. The guideline for money market operations for the intermeeting period will be as follows. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.5 percent. Nakamura Toyoaki dissented, considering that the Bank should decide on changing the guideline for money market operations after confirming a rise in firms' earning power from sources such as the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry at the next Monetary Policy Meeting. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.25 percent. The interest rate applied to the complementary deposit facility will be 0.5 percent. The basic loan rate applicable under the complementary lending facility will be 0.75 percent. The Bank judged it appropriate to adjust the degree of monetary accommodation from the perspective of sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target of 2 percent. The Bank will accordingly continue to raise the policy interest rate and adjust the degree of monetary accommodation. Voting against the action: NAKAMURA Toyoaki. Nakamura Toyoaki dissented, considering that the Bank should decide on changing the guideline for money market operations after confirming a rise in firms' earning power from sources such as the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry at the next MPM.