A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, April 26, 2021, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:54 p.m., and on Tuesday, April 27, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:53 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on March 18 and 19, 2021, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19); flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.04 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.06 to minus 0.18 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average had declined against the background of stock selling for position adjustments by institutional investors, reflecting the rise in stock prices, and of recent concern over the reinstatement of the state of emergency. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. As for liquidity in the JGB market, the volume of spot transactions had been flat at a relatively high level compared with that for the second half of 2020. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been appreciating somewhat against the U.S. dollar, with U.S. long-term interest rates declining to some degree, while it had been more or less flat against the euro. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Business sentiment globally had improved further. In particular, in the manufacturing industry, the net improvement in the diffusion indexes (DIs) for business sentiment had marked the highest level in about 10 years, and the trade volume and production level continued to increase, registering record highs, although the effects of such factors as a shortage of semiconductors had been seen in part. That said, the pace of improvement continued to vary significantly across countries and regions. Specifically, in the United States, signs of acceleration had been seen, including in the face-to-face services industry -- which had been relatively weak to date -- on the back of the implementation of large-scale additional economic measures and progress with vaccinations. On the other hand, in many emerging economies as well as European economies, although activities in the manufacturing industry had gained momentum, those in the face-to-face services industry continued to be pushed down, with the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 being at a high level. In India and Brazil in particular, the number of confirmed new cases had surged recently, and moves to retighten public health measures had been seen. Meanwhile, the Chinese economy had returned to a recovery path recently, although somewhat weak economic indicators were seen around the Lunar New Year holidays, mainly affected by restrictions on movement. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. That said, the pace of recovery was highly likely to be uneven across countries, primarily due to the different paces in the vaccine rollout. In addition, there remained high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on the global economy. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. With vaccinations progressing and the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 decreasing, the pace of increase in private consumption had accelerated, including services consumption -- which had been constrained to date -- partly due to the effects of the government's economic measures. Housing investment had increased clearly, with mortgage rates staying at low levels. As for the corporate sector, business sentiment had improved further and production continued to increase. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had picked up, mainly for machinery investment. The European economy continued to be pushed down, mainly for the services industry. Private consumption remained under downward pressure, partly because public health measures had been retightened in some economies, with the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 being at a high level. With regard to the corporate sector, although business sentiment in the services industry remained in a state of deterioration, the net improvement in the DI for that in the manufacturing industry had expanded, and exports and production had also picked up. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had started to pick up from a state of depression. The Chinese economy continued to recover. Exports had increased. Private consumption had increased, mainly owing to an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to rise in a wide range of industries on the back of recovery in demand at home and abroad and firm corporate profits. Under these circumstances, production also continued to increase. Emerging economies other than China had picked up on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. The NIEs had recovered, with exports increasing. The ASEAN countries had seen a moderate pick-up in economic activity on the whole, supported by an increase in exports, although domestic demand remained depressed, mainly reflecting a resurgence of COVID-19. The Russian economy had picked up. The pace of pick-up in the economies of India and Brazil had decelerated, particularly in domestic demand, mainly due to the resurgence of COVID-19. With respect to overseas financial markets, in advanced economies, long-term interest rates had been rising at a rapid pace since the beginning of 2021, mainly due to an improvement in their economic outlook. However, since the previous meeting, with economic indicators generally in line with market expectations, long-term interest rates in the United States had declined somewhat while those in Europe were more or less unchanged. U.S. and European stock prices had risen, mainly reflecting favorable corporate results, with the rise in long-term interest rates coming to a pause. In the foreign exchange market, with the appreciation of the U.S. dollar also coming to a pause, currencies in many emerging economies had stopped depreciating. Crude oil prices remained more or less flat. Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to head toward a recovery, supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. However, the level of economic activity, mainly in the face-to-face services sector, was expected to be lower than that prior to the pandemic for the time being while vigilance against COVID-19 continued. Exports and industrial production continued to increase. Looking at real exports by goods, the pace of increase in exports of automobile-related goods had leveled off recently, mainly affected by a peaking-out of pent-up demand and the shortage of semiconductors. IT-related exports had increased clearly because demand had been firm for a wide range of goods, including those related to smartphones and personal computers as well as parts for data centers and on-board equipment for motor vehicles. Exports of capital goods had increased, partly supported by a global increase in machinery investment and by firm exports of semiconductor production equipment that reflected an expansion in digital-related demand. As for the outlook, the pace of increase in exports and production was likely to decelerate for the time being, mainly for automobile-related goods, affected by such factors as the shortage of semiconductors. That said, exports and production were projected to continue increasing firmly, led mainly by capital goods and IT-related goods, supported by a global recovery in business fixed investment and the steady expansion in digital-related demand. Corporate profits and business sentiment had improved on the whole, although weakness had been seen in some industries, such as face-to-face services. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. On the back of improvement in corporate profits, the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- had picked up, mainly for digital-related goods such as personal computers and goods related to base stations and 5G networks. With large-scale Olympic Games-related construction having almost completed, private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- remained on a moderate declining trend, also reflecting the effects of a decrease in construction of stores and accommodation facilities, mainly by the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries. Machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment -- had shown a pick-up when fluctuations were smoothed out. By industry, orders had picked up for the manufacturing industry, reflecting increases in exports and production. Orders also had picked up on the whole for the nonmanufacturing industry, supported by investment related to base stations and 5G networks, digital-related investment, and labor-saving investment. Construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment -- had also picked up on the whole. This was because, although the construction of stores and accommodation facilities -- mainly by the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries -- continued to decrease, construction starts had been supported by an increase in construction of such buildings as logistics facilities on the back of expansion in e-commerce and by progress in urban redevelopment projects that had been decided before the outbreak of COVID-19. As for the outlook, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, supported by improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. A pick-up in private consumption had paused due to increased downward pressure on consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations. As for goods consumption, an increase in automobile sales had paused, mainly brought about by the effects of supply-side constraints due to the shortage of semiconductors. Sales of household electrical appliances maintained their moderate uptrend, mainly for personal computers, televisions, and white goods, on the back of an expansion in stay-at-home demand. Food and daily necessities remained firm due to an expansion in stay-at-home consumption. Services consumption had shown a relatively significant decline since the beginning of 2021, affected by the reinstatement of the state of emergency and a suspension of the "Go To Travel" campaign. Dining-out for January through February decreased further, reaching a level below that seen around summer 2020, due to business hour cuts that reflected the reinstatement of the state of emergency. As for travel, there was still almost no overseas travel due to continued travel restrictions. Domestic travel for January and February had also decreased due to the effects of the suspension of the "Go To Travel" campaign and the second declaration of the state of emergency, declining to the level seen around summer 2020. Based on anecdotal information from firms, statistics published by industry organizations, and high-frequency indicators such as the number of people going outside, recent developments in private consumption were as follows. Overall private consumption for March seemed to have increased somewhat on a month-on-month basis as services consumption had picked up, albeit at a low level, reflecting a lifting of the state of emergency. However, services consumption seemed to have decreased again since the start of April, with the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 increasing at a rapid pace. Although dining-out for March had increased somewhat from February on the back of an easing of requests to shorten operating hours, it had been pointed out -- particularly by owners of (Japanese-style bars) in areas where priority measures to prevent the spread of disease had been implemented -- that downward pressure on consumption had intensified again since the start of April. Domestic travel, mainly over short distances, for March had increased slightly compared with that for February, partly owing to travel and accommodation discounts aimed at local residents. However, travel demand had weakened again since April due to self-restraint from traveling, reflecting the resurgence of COVID-19, and reservations for Golden Week (the period from late April to early May that includes several national holidays) made through major travel agents appeared to be sluggish. In the outlook, private consumption, mainly face-to-face services consumption, was likely to remain sluggish, being at a relatively low level for the time being due to the effects of the increase in confirmed cases of COVID-19 and the resultant public health measures. Thereafter, it was expected to pick up again with vaccinations progressing and the impact of COVID-19 waning. The employment and income situation remained weak due to the impact of COVID-19. As for the employment situation, according to the Labour Force Survey, the number of employed persons saw its year-on-year rate of change continue to register negative growth, but it had almost bottomed out, reflecting a pick-up in economic activity. The year-on-year rate of decline in total hours worked per employee had accelerated again, mainly for the accommodations as well as eating and drinking services industries, affected by the requests to shorten operating hours under the state of emergency. With regard to labor market conditions, the active job openings-to-applicants ratio had been more or less flat at a level slightly above 1, mainly due to an increase in job openings that reflected the pick-up in economic activity. The labor force participation rate had increased, recovering to the latest peak level seen around the end of 2019, with seniors and women returning to the labor market. The unemployment rate remained more or less flat, at around 3 percent of late. Total cash earnings had declined, mainly due to decreases in special cash earnings (winter bonuses) and non-scheduled cash earnings. The year-on-year rate of change in scheduled cash earnings had been steady, being positive at around 0.0-0.5 percent. That in special cash earnings had been significantly negative, with deterioration in business performance spreading to winter bonuses and various allowances with a time lag. As for the outlook, the decline in employee income was likely to come to a halt, reflecting the pick-up in economic activity and improvement in business performance. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been slightly negative, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the past decline in crude oil prices. With regard to the outlook, it was likely to stay slightly negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and a reduction in mobile phone charges. Inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Firms' demand for funds that stemmed mainly from a decline in sales and a rise in precautionary demand, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19, remained at a high level, although an increase in demand by large firms in particular had leveled off. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been positive at around 6 percent. The unemployment rate remained more or less flat, at around 3 percent of late. Total cash earnings had declined, mainly due to decreases in special cash earnings (winter bonuses) and non-scheduled cash earnings. The year-on-year rate of change in scheduled cash earnings had been steady, being positive at around 0.0-0.5 percent. That in special cash earnings had been significantly negative, with deterioration in business performance spreading to winter bonuses and various allowances with a time lag. As for the outlook, the decline in employee income was likely to come to a halt, reflecting the pick-up in economic activity and improvement in business performance. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been slightly negative, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the past decline in crude oil prices. With regard to the outlook, it was likely to stay slightly negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and a reduction in mobile phone charges. Inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Firms' demand for funds that stemmed mainly from a decline in sales and a rise in precautionary demand, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19, remained at a high level, although an increase in demand by large firms in particular had leveled off. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had decreased relative to last year but had been progressing steadily when compared with the profit projections for the fiscal year, which had been revised taking account of the impact of COVID-19. Members agreed that sentiment in global financial markets continued on an improving trend due to heightened expectations for a recovery in the global economy, mainly on the back of progress with vaccinations and the additional economic measures taken in some advanced economies. That said, they shared the view that attention continued to be paid to various uncertainties in the markets, mainly due to concern over the resurgence of COVID-19. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Members shared the recognition that -- regarding the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's economic activity -- although the level of such activity, mainly in the face-to-face services sector, was expected to be lower than that prior to the pandemic for the time being, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually and supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. Members concurred that overseas economies were likely to continue growing, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be slightly negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the reduction in mobile phone charges. Members agreed that public investment was projected to steadily increase, reflecting progress such as in construction related to restoration and reconstruction following natural disasters, as well as to building national resilience, and that thereafter, it was expected to be at a relatively high level. Members then discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's price developments. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be slightly negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the reduction in mobile phone charges. They also shared the view that, although weakness in demand amid the situation of COVID-19 was projected to have an impact on prices, firms' price cuts that aimed at stimulating demand had not been and were not likely to be observed widely, given that one of the reasons for the decrease in demand was vigilance against COVID-19 and that there had been supply-side constraints and cost increases because of having taken preventive measures against COVID-19. In addition, they shared the view that the year-on-year rate of change in energy prices would likely turn positive on the back of a pick-up in crude oil prices since last autumn. Furthermore, they shared the view that, under these circumstances, medium- to long-term inflation expectations were likely to be more or less unchanged. Members agreed that, thereafter, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to turn positive and then increase gradually, mainly on the back of economic activity continuing to improve and the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges dissipating. Members also shared the view that medium- to long-term inflation expectations also were likely to rise again, and that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase gradually toward achieving the price stability target, although it would take time. Members agreed that, compared with the previous projections in the January Outlook Report, the projected rate of increase in the CPI for fiscal 2021 was lower due to the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges, but that for fiscal 2022 was more or less unchanged. Members then exchanged views regarding the financial conditions on which the above outlook was based. They shared the recognition that, owing to the continuation of powerful monetary easing by the Bank, the government's measures, and efforts made by private financial institutions, financial conditions would remain accommodative and further downward pressure on the real economy from the financial side would be avoided. One member expressed the recognition that the environment surrounding corporate financing, including developments in bankruptcies of firms and discontinuation of businesses, had generally been stable, and that the industries affected strongly by COVID-19 had been limited. One member said that developments in firms' financial positions -- including the possibility of an increase in solvency risks -- continued to warrant close monitoring as such positions remained weak in the face-to-face services industry, despite having become less so on the whole, due mainly to an improvement in business conditions. A different member expressed the view that attention should be paid to whether or not the number of corporate bankruptcies would increase, with principal repayments of effectively interest-free and unsecured loans provided through private financial institutions starting in part. Members then discussed developments in the financial system. They agreed that it was maintaining stability on the whole. However, members shared the recognition that, from a longer-term perspective, prolonged downward pressure on financial institutions' profits could create a risk of a gradual pullback in financial intermediation; on the other hand, under these circumstances, the vulnerability of the financial system could increase, mainly due to the search for yield behavior. On this basis, they shared the view that, although these risks were judged as not significant at this point, mainly because financial institutions had sufficient capital bases, it was necessary to pay close attention to future developments. One member expressed the view that financial system stability, which is the basis for achieving price stability, had been maintained on the whole and the smooth functioning of financial intermediation had been ensured. This member also said that, starting from this Monetary Policy Meeting, the Policy Board received an explanation on developments in the financial system from the Financial System and Bank Examination Department, and it was of great significance that these were regularly monitored at the Monetary Policy Meetings. Meanwhile, a different member pointed out that, with regard to the relationship between financial system stability and price stability, attention should also be paid to the one in which a decline in prices led to an increase in the effective burden of debt, thereby adversely affecting the financial system. Members concurred that the outlook was highly unclear, since it could change depending on the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on domestic and overseas economies. A few members said that, against the background of public health measures being tightened, attention needed to be paid to the consequences of COVID-19 and downside risks to economic activity and prices. A different member expressed the view that, if COVID-19 cases resurged repeatedly going forward, it was concerning that the recovery in the face-to-face services industry -- such as entertainment, dining-out, and travel -- could be delayed, and that the deterioration in consumer sentiment was likely to keep the savings rate for households at a high level. Members also shared the recognition that it was assumed that the impact of COVID-19 would subside, mainly due to the vaccine rollout; however, the pace of such rollout and the effects of the vaccines entailed uncertainties, and thus there was a risk that downward pressure on economic activity would increase. One member expressed the recognition that progress with vaccinations was important, and if the vaccine rollout took time, downward pressure on economic activity and prices could persist due to the prolonged impact of COVID-19. One member said that, if vaccinations did not proceed smoothly in Japan, in contrast to the progress abroad, it was concerning that the country might be left behind even in terms of economic growth. On the other hand, members agreed that, with economic measures conducted particularly in advanced economies, such as those in response to the impact of COVID-19, the pace of recovery in domestic and overseas economies could be faster than expected. In addition, one member noted that the economy could be pushed up significantly after COVID-19 subsided, mainly due to the materialization of pent-up demand in consumption. One member said that risks to economic activity were likely to be balanced for the middle of the projection period onward, taking into account the possibility that the global economy as a whole would register higher growth than expected, due to aggressive macroeconomic policies taken in each economy, and consumption would see a large rebound. Members also agreed that, while the impact of COVID-19 remained, growth expectations would not decline substantially and the smooth functioning of financial intermediation would be ensured; however, these premises entailed high uncertainties. Among these uncertainties, they discussed growth expectations in detail. One member expressed the recognition that business fixed investment plans for fiscal 2021 in the March (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) showed that, compared to developments observed during the Global Financial Crisis, firms' positive stance and growth expectations seemed to have been maintained, due mainly to the effects of measures taken by the government and the Bank. A different member noted that, according to the results of a survey on firms' forecast for Japan's economic growth rate, the rate had risen among listed firms compared with last year's survey, whereas it had declined slightly among small and medium-sized firms, indicating gaps across firms. In addition to the above, one member expressed the view that, if firms' efforts toward growth and reform were postponed in reflection of a recovery in business performance, medium- to long-term economic growth and achievement of the price stability target might be adversely affected. One member expressed concern over the possibility that a vague sense of uneasiness about the future as well as anxiety about future tax increases against the background of deterioration in the fiscal balance would constrain improvement in consumer sentiment. Members agreed that, as the baseline scenario of the outlook for prices, firms' price cuts that aimed at stimulating demand had not been and were not likely to be observed widely; that said, including this aspect, firms' price-setting behavior entailed uncertainties. One member expressed the view that, although price cuts that would lead to a decline in value-added had not been observed widely thus far, attention should be paid to the risk of such a situation happening. One member said that it was worth noting the possibility that behavioral changes within firms and households during the COVID-19 pandemic would alter the existing price perception. The member drew attention to the cost burden incurred by infection prevention efforts, an increase in sales prices to provide high value-added services, and a rise in costs to reorganize supply chains and address climate-related risks. Members shared the view that future developments in foreign exchange rates, international commodity prices, and import prices, as well as the effects of such developments on domestic prices continued to warrant attention since these risks might lead prices to deviate either upward or downward from the baseline scenario. Based on these discussions, members shared the recognition that, with regard to the risk balance, risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for the time being, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19, but were generally balanced for the middle of the projection period onward. They also concurred that risks to prices were skewed to the downside. Based on the above assessment of economic and financial developments, members discussed monetary policy. Members agreed that the three monetary easing measures -- namely, (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs -- had been exerting their intended effects. They shared the recognition that it was important for the Bank to continue to support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets through the three monetary easing measures, as weakness in firms' financial positions continued to be seen and there were various uncertainties in financial markets. One member expressed the recognition that, under the third state of emergency, the face-to-face services sector in particular had been under downward pressure again, and continued that, with regard to the conduct of monetary policy for the time being, the Bank should comprehensively take into consideration this situation and firmly focus on addressing the impact of COVID-19. Another member was of the view that, for the time being, it was necessary to persistently continue to provide support with both monetary and fiscal policies in order for COVID-19 to subside and in turn for economic activity to normalize. A different member noted that a variation in the pace of recovery was likely to remain across industries until the impact of COVID-19 subsided, and that macroeconomic policies, which affect the overall economy, were important in supporting the transfer of economic resources between different sectors. On this basis, members concurred that, for the time being, the Bank would closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. One member expressed the view that, while taking into account such factors as the environmental changes surrounding corporate financing, it was necessary to proceed with discussions on whether to extend the duration of the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), which at present was until the end of this September. A different member stated that, although vaccinations would serve as the key measure until COVID-19 subsided, support from macroeconomic policies was still important. Members then discussed the markets' response to the further effective and sustainable monetary easing decided by the Bank in March. One member expressed the recognition that the market reaction to the Bank's policy actions taken based on its assessment had been generally calm, and financial institutions' responses also had been more or less within expectations. A different member said that market developments to date suggested that the Bank's intention to enhance the sustainability and nimbleness of monetary policy had been interpreted without misunderstanding. Members also expressed their opinions on various points to take into account in relation to the conduct of monetary policy. One member said that, in view of the post-COVID-19 era, it was necessary to continue to carefully consider the path toward achieving the price stability target of 2 percent. This member added that, under the current policy framework, close cooperation between fiscal and monetary policies would contribute to achievement of the price stability target. Another member expressed the view that the large-scale fiscal support conducted around the world was starting to have a significant impact on the macroeconomy, and that, in the medium to long run, it was necessary to consider, while closely cooperating with the government, how monetary and fiscal policies could be adjusted with a view to achieving stable economic growth. Meanwhile, one member expressed the recognition that achieving the price stability target was not easy; therefore, in the conduct of monetary policy, it was necessary for the Bank to take advantage of a tailwind of the expected economic recovery and enhance monetary easing so as to achieve the target. A few members noted that it was extremely important for the Bank to have effective communication with the general public so that people could advance their understanding of monetary policy. One member said that it was necessary to further deepen the understanding of how the financial economy and the effects of monetary policy would evolve as COVID-19 brought about a further acceleration in digitalization of the economy and in turn progress with a shift in firms' assets from tangible to intangible. A different member pointed out that climate change was an important issue, in that it could affect the economy and the financial system, and thus the Bank should continue to enhance interdepartmental cooperation and consider necessary responses in line with its mandate as the central bank. With respect to yield curve control, members shared the recognition that the JGB yield curve had been formed smoothly in a manner consistent with the guideline for market operations. Based on the above discussions, regarding the guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period, most members expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to maintain the following guideline. First, as for the short-term policy interest rate, it would apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. Second, as for the long-term interest rate, the Bank would purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. On this point, one member expressed the opinion that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to responding to an increase in downward pressure on prices and encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. With regard to asset purchases other than JGB purchases, members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to implement the following guideline. First, it would purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. Second, the Bank would purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of September 2021. With respect to the Bank's stance on its future conduct of monetary policy, members shared the view that it would (1) continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it was necessary. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of September 2021. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it was necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeded 2 percent and stayed above the target in a stable manner. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of March 18 and 19, 2021, for release on May 6. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to responding to an increase in downward pressure on prices and encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. Mr. Kataoka expressed the opinion that, in order to avoid Japan's economy returning to deflation, further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target.