Members concurred that, with a view to supporting financing mainly of firms, it was appropriate for the Bank to introduce a new fund-provisioning measure and extend the duration of the measures to support financing by 6 months, as proposed by the staff. A different member expressed the opinion that it was appropriate for the Bank, through this new measure, to further encourage private financial institutions to make greater efforts in extending interest-free and unsecured loans based on the government's emergency economic measures. As for the duration of the measures to support financing, some members pointed to the possibility that the impact of the spread of COVID-19 would last and that it would be necessary for the Bank to continue to support financing mainly of firms for quite a long period. Members then shared the recognition that it was important for the Bank to clearly explain the measures that it had adopted in response to the spread of COVID-19, including the new fund-provisioning measure, so as to cultivate better understandings of market participants and the public. Some members said that the measures could be explained by referring to the following as a special program to support financing in response to the spread of COVID-19 with a total size of about 75 trillion yen: purchases of CP and corporate bonds (maximum amount outstanding: about 20 trillion yen) and the Special Operations (fund-provisioning against private debt pledged to the Bank as collateral: about 25 trillion yen [as of end-April]), coupled with the new fund-provisioning measure (fund-provisioning against eligible loans: about 30 trillion yen). One of these members commented that it was necessary for the Bank to clarify that the targets of its measures to support financing were wide-ranging, from large firms to sole proprietors. In addition, a different member expressed the view that the measures taken to enhance monetary easing since March could be categorized into three, as follows: (1) the aforementioned special program aimed at supporting financing mainly of firms; (2) provision of ample yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits, with a view to maintaining stability in financial markets; and (3) active purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). With respect to monetary policy for the immediate future, members agreed that it was desirable to focus the discussions at this meeting on points relating to the aforementioned staff proposal and thoroughly deliberate on other points at the next Monetary Policy Meeting, scheduled for June 15 and 16, upon reexamining developments in economic activity and prices as well as financial conditions. The government recognized that the Bank's new fund-provisioning measure would actively provide funds to private financial institutions that made interest-free and unsecured loans based on measures to support financing implemented by the government, and assessed it as a new form of cooperation between the government and the Bank. The government deemed that referring to the overall framework of the Bank's measures to support financing as the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) would be effective in terms of communication to the public. The government had been swiftly implementing the emergency economic measures with a scale of 117 trillion yen and the first supplementary budget for fiscal 2020, providing strong measures for supporting financing of firms with the total amount of 45 trillion yen, including schemes enabling interest-free loans without collateral through both government-affiliated and private financial institutions. Furthermore, based on the directions by the prime minister, the second supplementary budget was under compilation, including measures to strengthen financial functions such as increasing liquidity support and making use of quasi-capital instruments. The government expected that the Bank would continue to do its utmost mainly to ensure smooth corporate financing and maintain stability in financial markets, and also to work toward achieving the price stability target. The representative from the Cabinet Office made the following remarks. The real GDP growth rate for the January-March quarter of 2020 was minus 0.9 percent on a quarter-on-quarter basis (minus 3.4 percent on an annualized basis), indicating that the Japanese economy was in a severe situation. As private consumption, for example, had become more severe since the declaration of a state of emergency and as overseas economies remained weak, the Japanese economy was expected to face a significant economic downturn for the time being. Careful attention should also be paid to the risk that domestic and overseas economies would deteriorate further due to the spread of COVID-19. The government had been swiftly implementing the emergency economic measures and the first supplementary budget for fiscal 2020. In addition, based on the directions by the prime minister, the government would compile swiftly the second supplementary budget with the aim of promptly submitting it to and obtaining approval from the Diet, and respond flexibly while closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19 on the Japanese economy and people's livelihoods. The government recognized that the Bank's new fund-provisioning measure would firmly support the government's economic measures to support financing from the Bank's side. It expected the Bank to continue conducting appropriate monetary policy while closely monitoring current and future developments. The government expected that the Bank would continue to cooperate closely with the government while sharing a sense of crisis. Members voted unanimously to approve "Amendment to 'Principal Terms and Conditions of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19),'" which represented the aforementioned staff proposal. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. While doing so, the yields may move upward and downward to some extent mainly depending on developments in economic activity and prices. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, in response to a possible increase in downward pressure on prices and with the aim of alleviating firms' and households' interest burden. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The guideline for asset purchases other than JGB purchases will be as follows. In principle, the Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. With a view to lowering risk premia of asset prices in an appropriate manner, it may increase or decrease the amount of purchases depending on market conditions. For the time being, the Bank will actively purchase these assets so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces with the upper limit of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively. As for CP and corporate bonds, the Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2 trillion yen and about 3 trillion yen, respectively. In addition, until the end of March 2021, it will conduct additional purchases with the upper limit of the amounts outstanding of 7.5 trillion yen for each asset. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and to maintain stability in financial markets. On this basis, it will closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 for the time being and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. The Policy Board decided, by a unanimous vote, to extend the duration of these measures by 6 months and continue to conduct them until the end of March 2021. The short-term policy interest rate: The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The long-term interest rate: The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to actively purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) for the time being so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces with the upper limit of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively. In case of a rapid increase in the yields, the Bank will purchase JGBs promptly and appropriately. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates.