A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, June 16, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:59 p.m., and on Friday, June 17, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:36 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on April 27 and 28, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, with strong selling pressure observed in government bond futures markets, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days of JGBs with a remaining maturity of seven years, which corresponds to that of the cheapest-to-deliver issues. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had been purchasing exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.005 to minus 0.045 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.083 to minus 0.128 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had temporarily declined in line with stock prices in the United States and Europe but was more or less unchanged from the level observed at the time of the previous meeting, underpinned in part by a depreciation of the yen. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control, although they had temporarily been subject to increased upward pressure that reflected, for example, developments in U.S. interest rates and market speculation over the Bank of Japan's monetary policy. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been depreciating against the U.S. dollar and the euro, mainly reflecting rises in U.S. and European interest rates. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with some weakness seen in part. Against the background of lockdowns in China and the prolongation of the situation surrounding Ukraine, downward pressure on overseas economies had intensified and the global production level of the manufacturing industry and the world trade volume had been pushed down. Nevertheless, business sentiment continued to improve with the impact of COVID-19 waning and the resumption of economic activity, including in emerging economies, starting to become full-scale. As for the outlook, despite downward pressure from the effects of the situation surrounding Ukraine in particular, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole as the impact of COVID-19 waned. That said, there were high uncertainties for the time being, mainly over the course of the pandemic in China, developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine, and the effects of reduced monetary accommodation in advanced economies in response to rises in inflation. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. Private consumption continued to increase, amid the withdrawal of accumulated savings and with a shift in consumption patterns from goods to services being observed. While the number of employees continued to rise, the labor market remained tight, with the labor force participation rate recovering at only a moderate pace and the job openings-to-applicants ratio and turnover rates still being high. As for the corporate sector, sentiment kept improving and fixed investment continued to increase. Regarding price developments, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a high increase in the range of 6.0-6.5 percent on a year-on-year basis, mainly due to the effects of tight supply-demand conditions. European economies had recovered as a trend. Despite downward pressure from a rise in energy prices, private consumption had recovered as a trend, particularly for services consumption, on the back of continued resumption of economic activity. With regard to the corporate sector, in a situation where sentiment kept improving, fixed investment had also risen as a trend. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of increase in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been high at around 8 percent, due in part to the rise in energy prices and the impact of supply-side constraints. The Chinese economy had been pushed down by strict public health measures in light of the spread of COVID-19. Private consumption had decreased substantially, due mainly to the effects of movement restrictions, also in response to the spread. Production had declined, mainly affected by sluggish corporate activity and disruptions in logistics due to the lockdowns. Fixed asset investment had picked up as a trend, supported in part by infrastructure investment, but the pace of improvement had slowed due to the spread of COVID-19. Emerging economies other than China had picked up on the whole, although some economies had been pushed down by the effects of the situation surrounding Ukraine. The NIEs and the ASEAN countries had recovered because, although exports to China had been relatively weak, overall exports continued to increase and domestic demand kept improving on the back of progress in the resumption of economic activity. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in advanced economies had risen significantly. The factor behind the rise was heightened vigilance against an acceleration in the pace of policy rate hikes by the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank reflecting elevated inflation in the United States and Europe. In this situation, stock prices, particularly in the United States, had declined substantially. Crude oil prices had risen, mainly because concerns over a tightening of supply-demand conditions for crude oil had grown against the background of the European Union's decision to ban imports from Russia for items including crude oil arriving by sea, as well as an easing of public health measures in China. With regard to currencies in emerging economies in the foreign exchange market, while there were currencies that had depreciated as U.S. interest rates rose, the Russian ruble continued to appreciate, partly due to the effects of capital controls. Currencies in Latin America also had appreciated on the back of firm commodity prices. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base, while declining compared with a while ago, had been positive, at around 4.5 percent recently. That in the money stock also had been positive, in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. Members agreed that, with regard to economic activity, the economy had picked up as a trend, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with some weakness seen in part. Some members expressed the view that a slowdown had started to become evident in these economies due to such factors as the prolongation of the situation surrounding Ukraine and the impact of inflation. Members agreed that, despite downward pressure from the situation surrounding Ukraine, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole as the impact of COVID-19 waned. Members concurred that Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although some weakness had been seen in part, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19 and the rise in commodity prices. Members agreed that corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Members shared the view that private consumption was expected to be pushed down by deterioration in real income due to the rises in energy and food prices. Members agreed that the employment and income situation remained relatively weak on the whole. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 2 percent. Members recognized that price rises had started to take place in a wider range of items. The price stability target in a stable manner was difficult given developments in the output gap and inflation expectations. Meanwhile, one member expressed the view that, in order to achieve a virtuous cycle in which income and prices rose in a stable and sustainable manner, firms' efforts to improve productivity and raise wages were important. As for risks to economic activity and prices, members agreed that there were extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economy, including the course of COVID-19 at home and abroad and its impact, developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine, and developments in commodity prices and overseas economies. On this basis, they shared the view that it was necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. Regarding this point, one member expressed the view that a rapid depreciation of the yen had a negative impact on the economy as it heightened uncertainties about the future and therefore made it difficult for firms to formulate their business plans. A different member pointed out that attention was warranted on the risks that (1) supply-side constraints would be exacerbated by the prolongation of the situation surrounding Ukraine and the lockdowns in China and (2) the global decline in asset prices following monetary tightening in the United States and Europe would push down private consumption and business fixed investment in Japan, mainly through negative wealth effects. One member expressed concern about the risk that price rises would push down private consumption, particularly through deterioration in consumer sentiment, and the risk that the scarring effects of COVID-19 would remain for a prolonged period, mainly in the face-to-face services industry, even after COVID-19 subsided. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. A few members expressed the view that firms' financial positions -- excluding those of some small and medium-sized firms -- had been stable and the number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. One member pointed out that financial conditions in the nonmanufacturing industry -- particularly the services industry -- had improved with the impact of COVID-19 waning, while those in the manufacturing industry had seen a pause in their improvement, mainly affected by high commodity prices and the lockdowns in China. A different member said that small and medium-sized firms in particular had raised concern over the impact of the recent rise in raw material costs on their financial positions going forward. Based on the above assessment of economic and financial developments, members discussed monetary policy. Members agreed that measures such as the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing had been exerting their intended effects. Some members expressed the recognition that some more time should be taken in examining the impact of COVID-19 on financing, mainly of small and medium-sized firms. These members continued that, on this basis, the treatment of the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing from October 2022 onward should be decided at a future Monetary Policy Meeting. One of these members added that, while the course of the pandemic was still uncertain, the bidding amounts in those operations remained small thus far. Members shared the recognition that there was no change in the Bank's stance that, for the time being, it would closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Members then discussed the Bank's basic stance on its future conduct of monetary policy. They shared the view that Japan's economy was on its way to recovery from the pandemic and had been under downward pressure stemming from the rise in commodity prices; thus, the economy still required strong support from the financial side. They also agreed that it was necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. On this basis, members shared the recognition that, in order to achieve the price stability target, accompanied by wage increases, in a sustainable and stable manner, the Bank needed to conduct monetary easing while examining economic and financial developments, for which uncertainties had been extremely high. Regarding the relationship between monetary policy and foreign exchange rates, one member reemphasized the necessity of explaining clearly to the public that the aim of monetary policy was to achieve the 2 percent price stability target in a sustainable and stable manner. A different member noted that, although the range of items increasing in price had broadened due to the rise in commodity prices and movements in foreign exchange rates, it could not be said that the price stability target had been achieved amid a virtuous cycle. This member continued that it was therefore appropriate for the Bank to maintain the current monetary policy. From the viewpoint of achieving the price stability target in a sustainable and stable manner, many members pointed out the importance of wage increases. Specifically, one member said that the continuation of monetary easing could be considered effective to encourage sustained wage hikes by firms. A few members expressed the recognition that, with the output gap remaining negative for more than two years, in order to achieve a sustained rise in wages, which would push up demand, it was appropriate for the Bank to continue with the current monetary easing and thereby firmly support the economy. A different member said that achieving the price stability target of 2 percent required wage increases that exceeded 2 percent inflation; however, with the output gap being negative, Japan's economy had not reached a situation where labor market conditions were likely to accelerate a rise in wages. This member continued that, on this point, the economic environment in Japan had been different from that in the United States and Europe, where monetary accommodation had been reduced. One member pointed out that, in order to achieve the price stability target in a stable manner, it was necessary to provide a resilient economic environment where private consumption continued to expand through rises in households' purchasing power and inflation expectations, even when firms changed their selling prices. A different member expressed the view that, while assessing data in real time, particularly on underlying inflation and inflation expectations, the Bank should continue with monetary easing until it became certain that wages had increased as a trend and to the point where the price stability target was achieved in a sustainable and stable manner. This member also expressed the view that, in order to close Japan's negative output gap and increase income and employment, it was necessary for the Bank to aim at achieving a high-pressure economy by stimulating the economy, in coordination with the government's fiscal and other policies. Meanwhile, one member noted that, in the conduct of monetary policy, the Bank should strengthen its monetary easing stance with a view to improving the output gap and inflation expectations, and thereby achieve an economic recovery and the price stability target early. With respect to monetary policy conduct, one member said that, not only do prices have a broad impact on people's lives in general, but the degree of the impact differs depending on such factors as the attributes of each economic entity or region. This member continued that, therefore, attention should also be warranted on the Bank's communication to the public regarding price developments and monetary policy conduct. A different member said that it was necessary to explain more carefully to the public that, while price rises in goods and services increase the burden on households, regardless of their cause, the important point was that wage increases be achieved so as to reduce such burden. Members shared the recognition that the JGB yield curve had been formed in a manner consistent with the guideline for market operations. On this basis, they discussed the Bank's responses in terms of market operations to the recent upward pressure on long-term interest rates. One member expressed the view that it was appropriate that the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver issues for consecutive days, taking account of market conditions during that period. A few members said that the recent increase in the Bank's JGB purchases was a necessary measure for implementing the guideline for market operations, and thus the Bank should continue with its purchases while taking account of market conditions. One member said that upward pressure on domestic interest rates from overseas was expected to continue. The member then noted that, in this situation, in order to implement the guideline for market operations, it was appropriate for the Bank to continue conducting fixed-rate purchase operations every business day. Based on the above discussions, regarding the guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period, most members expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to maintain the following guideline. First, as for the short-term policy interest rate, it would apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. Second, as for the long-term interest rate, the Bank would purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around zero percent. These members continued that, in order to implement this guideline for market operations, it was appropriate that the Bank offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent every business day for an unlimited amount through the fixed-rate method, unless it was highly likely that no bids would be submitted. On this point, one member expressed the opinion that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. To reflect the view of the members, the chairman formulated the following proposal on the guideline for asset purchases and put it to a vote. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Chairman's Policy Proposal on the Guideline for Asset Purchases: The guideline for asset purchases other than JGB purchases will be as follows. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amounts outstanding would gradually return to pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. On the basis of the above discussions, members discussed the Statement on Monetary Policy. Mr. Kataoka expressed the opinion that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target. Based on this discussion, the chairman formulated the Statement on Monetary Policy and put it to a vote. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. It was confirmed that the statement would be released immediately after the meeting. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of April 27 and 28, 2022, for release on June 22. The minutes of this meeting were approved by the Policy Board at the Monetary Policy Meeting held on July 20 and 21, 2022, as "a document describing an outline of the discussion at the meeting" stipulated in Article 20, paragraph 1 of the Bank of Japan Act of 1997. The target level of the long-term interest rate was as follows: The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. the chairman formulated the Statement on Monetary Policy and put it to a vote. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank decided to set the following guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, so that their amounts outstanding will gradually return to pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. Japan's economy has picked up as a trend, although some weakness has been seen in part, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19 and a rise in commodity prices. Overseas economies have recovered on the whole, albeit with some weakness seen in part. Exports and industrial production have continued to increase as a trend, but the effects of supply-side constraints have intensified lately. Business sentiment has seen a pause in its improvement recently, mainly due to the impact of supply-side constraints and the rise in commodity prices. Corporate profits have been at high levels on the whole. Business fixed investment has picked up, although weakness has been seen in some industries. The employment and income situation has remained relatively weak on the whole, although improvement has been seen in some parts. Private consumption has picked up, particularly for services consumption, with the impact of COVID-19 waning. Housing investment has been more or less flat. Public investment has been relatively weak. Financial conditions have been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions has remained in some segments. On the price front, with the effects of a reduction in mobile phone charges dissipating, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) has been at around 2 percent, mainly due to rises in energy and food prices. Meanwhile, inflation expectations, particularly short-term ones, have risen. Japan's economy is likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning and with support from an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures, although it is expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the rise in commodity prices due to factors such as the situation surrounding Ukraine. Thereafter, as the negative impact of high commodity prices wanes and a virtuous cycle from income to spending intensifies gradually, Japan's economy is projected to continue growing, albeit more slowly, at a pace above its potential growth rate. The year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) is likely to be at around 2 percent for the time being due to the impact of rises in energy and food prices, but it is expected to decelerate thereafter because the positive contribution of the rise in energy prices to the CPI is likely to wane. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) is expected to moderately increase in positive territory on the back of improvement in the output gap and rises in medium- to long-term inflation expectations and wage inflation, and partly also of a pass-through of raw material cost increases. Concerning risks to the outlook, there remain extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economy, including the course of COVID-19 at home and abroad and its impact, developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine, and developments in commodity prices and overseas economies. In this situation, it is necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. For the time being, while closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19, the Bank will support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets, and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary; it also expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Voting for the action: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi, Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi, Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi, Mr. ADACHI Seiji, Mr. NAKAMURA Toyoaki, Mr. NOGUCHI Asahi, and Ms. NAKAGAWA Junko. Voting against the action: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target.