A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, October 28, 2020, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:59 p.m., and on Thursday, October 29, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:05 p.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on September 16 and 17, 2020, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted purchases of CP and corporate bonds and the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) to support financing, mainly of firms, under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). In addition, with a view to maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had provided ample funds flexibly, mainly through purchases of JGBs and the conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and had actively purchased exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.06 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had risen somewhat. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average had been generally unchanged, while U.S. stock prices, after having risen mainly as a reflection of expectations for recovery in business performance, had declined due to the spread of COVID-19. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. As for liquidity in the JGB market, with interest rates being stable, indicators such as those of market depth for JGB futures had followed an improving trend although trading volume for JGBs had been at a relatively low level. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been more or less flat against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. Overseas economies had picked up from a state of significant depression. Since the previous meeting, the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had increased further on a global basis, and it had recently been close to or above the past peak, particularly in many European economies and the United States. However, with the aim of taking preventive measures against COVID-19 and improving economic activities simultaneously, most of these economies had so far avoided such measures as the strict and wide-ranging lockdowns of cities imposed in early spring by, for example, narrowing down the target of public health measures. Under these circumstances, the decline in mobility had also been only small compared with that in early spring, and an improving trend in the services sector (i.e., nonmanufacturing) seemed to be maintained. With regard to the goods sector (i.e., manufacturing), business sentiment continued to improve partly reflecting the materialization of pent-up demand and a recovery in production from the decline brought about by COVID-19, and a pick-up in global production and the world trade volume had also become evident. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, the global economy was likely to improve, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken by each country and region. That said, it was highly likely that the pace of improvement would be only moderate for the time being since people would remain cautious in their spending activities due to vigilance against COVID-19. In addition, extremely high uncertainties remained, mainly regarding the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on the global economy. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had picked up from a state of significant depression. Private consumption also had picked up, mainly for goods consumption, reflecting in particular the government's measures to compensate for the decline in household income and the materialization of pent-up demand, although services consumption remained at a low level, with the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 increasing again. Housing investment had increased, with mortgage rates staying at record low levels. As for the corporate sector, business sentiment continued to improve and production had picked up. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had been depressed on the whole, mainly reflecting a decline in corporate profits, but a pick-up had been seen primarily in machinery investment. The European economy had picked up from a state of significant depression. In the euro area, private consumption had picked up moderately on the whole, mainly for goods consumption, reflecting in particular the materialization of pent-up demand, although services consumption remained at a low level, partly due to a tightening of public health measures in response to a resurgence of COVID-19. With regard to the corporate sector, although business sentiment in the services industry had deteriorated somewhat due to a resurgence of COVID-19, that in the manufacturing industry continued to improve, and exports and production had also picked up. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had been depressed on the whole, mainly reflecting a decline in corporate profits, but it had picked up in part. The Chinese economy had recovered due to the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies and the materialization of pent-up demand. Exports had increased. Private consumption had increased mainly owing to an improvement in the employment and income situation and the materialization of pent-up demand, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to increase, given, for example, that investment such as that related to public works had increased reflecting the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies, and that such policy effects had also spread to the manufacturing industry. Under these circumstances, production had increased. Emerging economies other than China remained depressed, but a pick-up had been seen in part. As for the NIEs and the ASEAN countries, a pick-up had been widely observed on the whole, mainly in exports and production, although domestic demand remained depressed in some economies due to the impact of COVID-19. The economies of India, Brazil, and Russia continued to be depressed as the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had still been at a high level, but a pick-up had also been seen. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. stock prices and long-term interest rates had risen, mainly reflecting favorable economic indicators. On the other hand, European stock prices and long-term interest rates had declined against the background of an increase in the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 and the subsequent tightening of public health measures. In the foreign exchange market, while the depreciation trend of the U.S. dollar had paused, currencies in emerging economies had, on the whole, depreciated somewhat. Crude oil prices had been more or less unchanged. Japan's economy had picked up with economic activity resuming, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Regarding the outlook, with economic activity resuming and the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, the economy was likely to continue picking up for the time being, partly supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures. Exports and industrial production had increased, reflecting developments in overseas economies. Looking at real exports by goods, exports of automobile-related goods had increased clearly, reflecting a recovery in automobile sales in the United States, Europe, and China. IT-related exports had turned to an increase on the back of firm developments in parts for data centers and in those related to personal computers, as well as of a pick-up in parts for on-board equipment for motor vehicles. Exports of capital goods had bottomed out due to a global recovery in production activity. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning globally, exports and production were likely to continue increasing firmly for the time being, partly supported by the materialization of pent-up demand. Private consumption had picked up gradually on the whole, although consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations, remained at a low level. As for goods consumption, automobile sales had recovered to the pre-pandemic levels. Sales of household electrical appliances remained firm, partly reflecting people spending more time at home and the effects of the provision of special cash payments, but the rate of increase had been decelerating recently. In addition, food and daily necessities, for example, remained firm on the back of the expansion in stay-at-home consumption. Services consumption had shown a pick-up from the bottom hit in the April-May period, when the state of emergency was in place, but the pace remained slow, as seen, for example, in a pause in the pick-up due in part to a resurgence in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases since July. The level of such consumption remained low, mainly for face-to-face services such as dining-out and travel. Dining-out had increased gradually since May, but only about half of the decline brought about by COVID-19 had been offset. As for travel, domestic travel had picked up gradually, albeit at a low level, owing to relaxation of self-restraint from traveling across prefectures and the effects of the "Go To Travel" campaign; on the other hand, there had been almost no overseas travel as travel restrictions remained in place. In the outlook, private consumption was likely to continue picking up, partly supported by demand stimulus measures such as the "Go To" campaign. That said, while the impact of COVID-19 remained, the pace of increase in private consumption was highly likely to be quite moderate because (1) a decline in the operation rates, mainly for dining-out and services for individuals, was inevitable, and (2) there was strong vigilance against COVID-19, mainly by seniors. With the continuing impact of COVID-19, the employment and income situation had been weak. As for the employment situation, according to the Labour Force Survey, the year-on-year rate of decline in the number of employed persons for the July-August period was almost the same as that for the April-June quarter, mainly due to a decrease in non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. The number of employed persons whose working hours were zero in the last week of each month spiked in April, but thereafter followed a declining trend, and the figure for August had generally returned to the level seen in March. However, the year-on-year rate of change in the number of hours worked per employee continued to register relatively large negative growth. With regard to labor market conditions, the deterioration in the diffusion index (DI) for employment conditions in the September 2020 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) had come to a halt. However, in the accommodations as well as eating and drinking services industry, where a decline in demand had been evident, firms' perception of excess employment remained strong. Total cash earnings had declined, mainly due to decreases in non-scheduled cash earnings and summer bonuses. Employee income was projected to continue declining clearly for the time being, while lagging somewhat behind a deterioration in corporate profits. Corporate profits had deteriorated substantially, reflecting a rapid drop in domestic and overseas demand. Business sentiment had deteriorated significantly but subsequently had improved somewhat. With regard to the business conditions DI for all industries and enterprises, the net 'unfavorable' in the June survey had hit a low level not seen since December 2009, but it had improved marginally in the September survey. Business fixed investment had been on a declining trend against the background of deterioration in corporate profits and increasing uncertainties over the future. The aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- continued to decline clearly. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- also continued to be on a moderate declining trend, partly due to large-scale Olympic Games-related construction having almost completed. Machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment -- had shown signs of bottoming out, mainly for manufacturing, reflecting increases in exports and production. On the other hand, a declining trend in construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment -- had become evident recently. This was largely attributable to a decrease in construction of stores and accommodation facilities that had been seen mainly in the eating and drinking as well as accommodation industries. Regarding figures for the September surveys, the business fixed investment plan for fiscal 2020 showed negative growth on a year-on-year basis, albeit marginally, for the first time since fiscal 2009. Meanwhile, software investment was expected to continue increasing steadily, reflecting firms' active stance toward digital-related investment. As for the outlook, business fixed investment was expected to continue its downtrend for the time being, mainly for construction investment by the face-to-face services industry, against the background of deterioration in corporate profits and high uncertainties over future developments related to COVID-19. That said, it was likely that the capital stock adjustment would not be significant, and with the impact of COVID-19 waning, business fixed investment was projected to return to a moderate uptrend along with improvement in corporate profits. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been slightly negative, mainly affected by COVID-19, the past decline in crude oil prices, and the 'Go To Travel' campaign. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was also likely to be negative for the time being. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so, as seen in weakness in firms' financial positions. Inflation expectations had weakened somewhat. Firms' demand for funds remained at a high level, mainly reflecting a decline in sales and a rise in precautionary demand, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19, but an increase in demand by large firms in particular had paused recently. Although firms' financial positions had stopped deteriorating, they had been weak, mainly reflecting a decline in sales due to the impact of COVID-19. However, the environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 6.0-6.5 percent, and that in the amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at a relatively high level that exceeded 10 percent. The year-on-year rate of increase in the monetary base had been in the range of 14.0-14.5 percent, and that in the money stock had been at around 9 percent. Members agreed that the tension in global financial markets had eased, mainly because expectations for recovery in business performance, particularly in the United States, had strengthened, reflecting resumption of economic activities. However, they shared the view that, amid a situation of highly unclear developments in domestic and overseas economies, the markets remained nervous as COVID-19 continued to spread globally. Some of these members expressed the recognition that, besides the impact of COVID-19, there were various uncertainties that could affect the global financial markets, such as the U.S. presidential election and trade negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union (EU). One member said that developments in U.S. financial markets, for example, in low-rated corporate bonds, warranted attention. A different member pointed out that, with regard to indicators that capture the skew of market participants' recognition of risks, the risk reversal of the U.S. dollar/yen indicated growing concern over an appreciation of the yen. Members concurred that overseas economies had picked up from a state of significant depression. However, some members noted that the pick-up in overseas economies had been only moderate and uneven. One of these members pointed out that there had been variations in the pace of recovery across countries depending on developments in COVID-19, and that by industry, the pace of the pick-up in nonmanufacturing had been slower than that in manufacturing. Members concurred that the economy had picked up with economic activity resuming gradually, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Members shared the recognition that overseas economies had picked up from a state of significant depression. Members shared the recognition that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so. Members agreed that, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually, overseas economies were likely to improve. Members agreed that private consumption was likely to continue picking up. Members concurred that business fixed investment was expected to remain on a declining trend for the time being. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to be negative for the time being. Members shared the recognition that financial conditions would remain accommodative. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was expected to turn positive as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually. Members concurred that, as economic activity improved, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase gradually. The Bank confirmed that it had pursued Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control and had conducted various powerful monetary easing measures since March in response to COVID-19 to support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets. Members then concurred that, in this situation, although firms' financial positions had been weak, the environment for external funding, such as bank borrowing and the issuance of CP and corporate bonds, remained accommodative. Members also agreed that, while the impact of COVID-19 remained, firms' and households' medium- to long-term growth expectations would not decline substantially and the smooth functioning of financial intermediation would be ensured with financial system stability being maintained; however, these premises entailed high uncertainties. Members shared the recognition that, if COVID-19 had a larger impact than expected, there was a risk that deterioration in the real economy would affect financial system stability through the materialization of credit risk, thereby exerting further downward pressure on the real economy. Members shared the view that, with regard to the risk balance, risks to both economic activity and prices were skewed to the downside, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19. Based on the above assessment of economic and financial developments, members discussed monetary policy for the immediate future. Most members shared the recognition that the three monetary easing measures -- namely, (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits, and (3) active purchases of assets such as ETFs -- had been exerting their intended effects. Members concurred that, for the time being, the Bank would closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. Members deliberated over various points to take into account in relation to the conduct of monetary policy. Regarding the fact that upward pressure on the uncollateralized overnight call rate had increased somewhat recently, one member expressed the recognition that the Bank needed to carefully communicate with the market so that the increase would not be misinterpreted as a message that the Bank's monetary easing stance had weakened while other central banks had strengthened theirs. Members shared the recognition that the JGB yield curve had been formed smoothly in a manner consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. Mr. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, in response to a possible increase in downward pressure on prices and with the aim of alleviating firms' and households' interest burden. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. In principle, the Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. the Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2 trillion yen and about 3 trillion yen, respectively. the Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. the Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of September 16 and 17, 2020, for release on November 4. The Bank will continue with "Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control," aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner.