A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, September 21, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:59 p.m., and on Thursday, September 22, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:44 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on July 20 and 21, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. Meanwhile, it had added and changed the CTD issues applicable to fixed-rate purchase operations and to the relaxation of the terms and conditions for the Securities Lending Facility (SLF), given the rollover of JGB futures contracts. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.007 to minus 0.053 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.084 to minus 0.140 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had fluctuated in line with U.S. stock prices and was more or less unchanged from the level observed at the time of the previous meeting throughout the intermeeting period. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar and the euro, while such factors as differences in the direction of monetary policy in Japan and that in the United States and Europe had drawn attention again. Overseas economies had recovered moderately on the whole, but slowdowns had been observed, mainly in advanced economies. Downward pressure on the global economy had increased as central banks in advanced and emerging economies had proceeded with policy rate hikes amid inflationary pressure continuing worldwide. On the other hand, positive developments had been seen, such as an uptrend in the world trade volume with supply-side constraints waning. Under such circumstances, developments in overseas economies had varied across countries and regions. As for the outlook, although the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints was likely to wane, overseas economies were expected to see slowdowns with variation across countries and regions, reflecting global inflationary pressure and policy rate hikes by central banks, as well as the impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine. That said, there were high uncertainties for the time being, including over the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine and the effects of policy rate hikes by central banks. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had decelerated somewhat in reflection of significantly high inflation and continued policy rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Private consumption continued to increase, particularly for services consumption, with savings accumulated to date and firm labor market conditions continuing to act as underpinning factors. However, the pace of its increase had slowed, mainly affected by significantly high inflation. Housing investment had decreased in reflection of the policy rate hikes. The labor market remained tight. Business sentiment kept improving, but its pace had slowed. Production continued to increase, albeit with some weakness seen in part, and business fixed investment continued to see a small increase. Regarding prices, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a high increase in the range of 6.0-6.5 percent on a year-on-year basis, mainly due to the effects of tight supply and demand conditions. Members shared the view that Japan's economy had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected from COVID-19, despite being affected by factors such as the rise in commodity prices. Members shared the recognition that, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments, financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole. Members discussed the treatment of the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing. Members shared the recognition that it was appropriate to basically complete the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will offer to purchase 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent every business day for an unlimited amount through the fixed-rate method, unless it is highly likely that no bids will be submitted. The guideline for asset purchases other than JGB purchases will be as follows. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amounts outstanding will gradually return to pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. The Bank will extend the period for new application for loans disbursed against non-government-supported loans under the operations to March 31, 2023. The Bank will extend the period for new application for loans disbursed against government-supported loans under the operations to December 31, 2022. The Bank will provide funds with no upper limit on the amount under the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral at the Bank's Head Office and its branches. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of July 20 and 21, 2022, for release on September 28. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. For the time being, while closely monitoring the impact of COVID-19, the Bank will support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets, and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary.