A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, September 21, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:05 p.m., and on Friday, September 22, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. In accordance with the guideline for market operations and the guideline for conduct of yield curve control, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on July 27 and 28, 2023, the Bank had been conducting market operations, including purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Specifically, it had carried out outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 1.0 percent through the fixed-rate method and fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. Moreover, the Bank had nimbly conducted unscheduled purchases of JGBs and the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral with a loan duration of five years through the variable-rate method. With these market operations, long-term interest rates had been at levels consistent with the Bank's guideline and the shape of the JGB yield curve continued to be generally smooth. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guidelines for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.012 to minus 0.076 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.091 to minus 0.164 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had decreased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had increased following the decision at the previous meeting to conduct yield curve control with greater flexibility, and they had been in the range of around 0.435 to 0.720 percent. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets generally remained in a state of deterioration compared with those seen in the first half of 2022. However, they continued to improve relative to their deterioration. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, showed an improvement from the previous survey. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against both the U.S. dollar and the euro, while the yield differentials between Japan, the United States, and Europe had drawn attention. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. The U.S. economy, despite being affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, had been firm, particularly for private consumption. European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB) and other central banks, and by the situation surrounding Ukraine. The Chinese economy had slowed moderately, mainly owing to the effects of a slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market, although services consumption had been firm as the normalization of economic activity had progressed. In emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, the pace of improvement had slowed on the whole; although domestic demand continued to improve moderately in these economies, exports had slowed. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being. They were expected to pick up gradually thereafter as the effects of containment of inflation through monetary tightening materialized. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, in the United States, long-term interest rates had risen, due to prospects of a deterioration in the supply and demand conditions of U.S. Treasury securities, reflecting government plans to increase issuance. Stock prices had declined due to the rise in long-term interest rates. In Europe, long-term interest rates had also risen in line with those in the United States. Stock prices in Europe had declined due to the rise in long-term interest rates and in view of a delay in the recovery of the Chinese economy. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had depreciated, in reflection of the rise in U.S. long-term interest rates. Crude oil prices had risen, mainly reflecting continued production cuts by some oil-producing economies. Japan's economy had recovered moderately. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, as well as by factors such as accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were projected to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, they were likely to return to an uptrend with overseas economies picking up. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business fixed investment had increased moderately. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, such investment was expected to continue increasing. Private consumption had increased steadily at a moderate pace, despite being affected by price rises. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had been on an increasing trend until July 2023, albeit with monthly fluctuations. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption seemed to have continued on a moderate uptrend since August 2023, despite being affected by price rises and typhoons. This was because the income situation had improved, partly in light of the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations, and pent-up demand had also provided support. Even amid ongoing high prices, private consumption had seen firmness thus far, as consumer sentiment followed an improving trend on the back of the moderate pick-up in the income situation. Regarding the outlook, although such consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue increasing moderately with nominal employee income continuing to improve, and partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees had risen moderately, mainly in the wholesale and retail industry and the face-to-face services industry, as economic activity normalized. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. Partly as inflation declined, the year-on-year rate of decline in real employee income was projected to follow a decelerating trend; thereafter, the rate of change was likely to gradually turn positive. As for prices, commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole. Although the impact of past high commodity prices had gradually waned, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had been more or less flat, mainly due to the impact of a recent rise in energy prices. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been at around 3 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was expected to decelerate, with a waning of the effects of the pass-through led by the past rise in import prices. They continued that, thereafter, the rate of increase was projected to accelerate again moderately, as the output gap improved and as medium- to long-term inflation expectations and wage growth rose, accompanied by changes in factors such as firms' wage- and price-setting behavior. Some members pointed out that moves to pass through mainly the rise in import prices to consumer prices remained more persistent than projected. A few members expressed the view that the year-on-year rate of increase in goods prices had started to decelerate, following a decline in import prices, and that it was high. It was expressed that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. One member expressed the view that it seemed that large firms, which had proceeded with structural reforms, had increased confidence in their earning power; small and medium-sized firms, however, had lagged behind in these reforms on the whole and a large number of them had insufficient capacity to raise wages. This member continued that attention therefore needed to be paid to whether or not changes in the economic environment would cause a waning in their appetite for wage hikes and business fixed investment. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been at around 3 percent recently owing to the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was likely to decelerate, with the waning of the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Thereafter, the rate of increase was projected to accelerate again moderately, as the output gap improved and as medium- to long-term inflation expectations and wage growth rose, accompanied by changes in factors such as firms' wage- and price-setting behavior. Some members pointed out that moves to pass through mainly the rise in import prices to consumer prices remained more persistent than projected. A few members expressed the view that, in relation to policy responses, price rises due to wage increases were more important than those resulting from cost-push factors. On this basis, one of these members pointed out that it was important to collect micro-level information about the extent to which the two factors -- wage increases and cost-push factors -- affected prices, and to underpin such information with statistical data. Members discussed whether changes in firms' wage- and price-setting behavior would continue. Some members expressed the view that it was quite possible that the wage growth rate to be agreed in the annual spring labor-management wage negotiations in 2024 would exceed that in 2023. Many members pointed out that attention should be paid to whether future cost increases, such as of wage costs, would be reflected in prices. Members concurred that there were extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economic activity and prices. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. In addition, they shared the view that firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. Members agreed that sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target had not yet come in sight. The member then pointed out that it was important for the Bank to support the momentum for wage hikes through continuation of monetary easing. Regarding the functioning of the corporate bond market, one member expressed the recognition that, while the issuance conditions for such bonds had been on an improving trend, investors' demand had begun to shift from those in the long-term zone to those in the medium-term zone due to expectations of a rise in interest rates. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to maintain the current guideline. Members stated that it is important to prepare for an exit from the current monetary policy. Members agreed that it was appropriate to maintain the current guideline. Members concurred that it was appropriate to maintain the current guideline for asset purchases. Members shared the basic stance that they would patiently continue with monetary easing amid extremely high uncertainties. Members shared the view that they aim to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable and stable manner. Members decided to continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE). Members decided to set the guideline for asset purchases. Members decided to set upper limits for asset purchases. Members decided to maintain the stability of financial markets. Members decided to take additional easing measures if necessary.