A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Tuesday, March 18, 2025, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:42 p.m., and on Wednesday, March 19, from 9:00 a.m. to 11:18 a.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on January 23 and 24, 2025. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.476 to 0.485 percent. Meanwhile, the Bank had conducted Japanese government bond (JGB) purchases of about 4.5 trillion yen per month, in accordance with the JGB reduction plan decided at the July 2024 meeting. The Bank had discontinued purchases of CP and corporate bonds after the auctions in January 2025, in accordance with the decision made at the March 2024 meeting. In the money market, the uncollateralized overnight call rate had been at around 0.5 percent. The general collateral (GC) repo rate had been at around the same level as the uncollateralized overnight call rate on the whole, albeit with fluctuations. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) were more or less unchanged. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was more or less unchanged: it had been weighed down by market concerns over the evolving situation regarding trade and other policies in each jurisdiction, although solid corporate profits were viewed positively by market participants. Yields on 10-year JGBs had risen, mainly against the background of generally solid economic indicators and changes in market participants' views on the future conduct of monetary policy that reflected these indicators. The liquidity indicators in the JGB markets continued to be at improved levels on the whole compared with a while ago. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, showed an improvement, reaching the same level as in the November 2015 survey. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against the U.S. dollar as the yield differential between Japan and the United States had narrowed. The yen had been more or less flat against the euro. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. The U.S. economy continued to grow firmly, although some weakness had been seen in part. In European economies, some weakness had been observed, particularly in the manufacturing industry. Despite government support, the pace of improvement in the Chinese economy had been on a slowing trend, with continued downward pressure from adjustments in the real estate and labor markets. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to keep growing moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the evolving situation regarding trade and other policies in each jurisdiction and its impact, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. long-term interest rates had declined significantly, as vigilance against a deterioration in the supply and demand conditions of U.S. Treasury securities had abated somewhat, and as market expectations of policy interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve had increased. European long-term interest rates had risen significantly, since vigilance had heightened against a deterioration in the supply and demand conditions of European government bonds, mainly due to moves to increase defense spending. U.S. stock prices had fallen, mainly reflecting lower-than-expected economic indicators and heightened uncertainties over trade and other policies. European stock prices had risen, mainly owing to higher-than-expected corporate profits, with attention being paid to the undervaluation of European stock prices relative to those in the United States. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had appreciated against the background of the decline in U.S. interest rates and the U.S. dollar's depreciation, both reflecting concerns over a slowdown in the U.S. economy. Crude oil prices had fallen. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Exports had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, it was projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to the recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Corporate profits had been on an improving trend. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits continued on an improving trend. Private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had decreased for January 2025 relative to the October-December quarter of 2024, mainly for durable goods, and beverages and food. Based on anecdotal information from firms and on high-frequency indicators, private consumption since February 2025 seemed to have been on a moderate increasing trend, although some firms had pointed to the effects of consumers' increased thriftiness due to price rises. Consumer sentiment had deteriorated slightly. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue on a moderate increasing trend, with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, private consumption was likely to continue increasing moderately as employee income continued to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees overall had been more or less flat, albeit with fluctuations: while the number of non-regular employees in industries such as face-to-face services had been on an increasing trend, the number of involuntary non-regular employees had been on a declining trend with labor market conditions tightening. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. A positive trend in the year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was expected to take hold, albeit with fluctuations. As for prices, commodity prices had declined slightly on the whole. The rate of increase in the producer price index (PPI, adjusted for the effects of seasonal changes in electricity rates) relative to three months earlier had decelerated, as the government had temporarily resumed its measures to reduce the household burden of higher electricity and gas charges. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high, at around 3 percent recently, mainly on the back of a rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, and as the government's measures to reduce the household burden of higher energy prices had been scaled back, although the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Moreover, the rise in rice prices had been another factor pushing up the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the CPI, while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that, with a growing sense of labor shortages, the output gap would improve and medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with the virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period of the January 2025 Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook Report), underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Through fiscal 2025, rice prices were likely to be at high levels and the effects of the government's measures pushing down inflation would dissipate, and these factors were expected to make a positive contribution to the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food). Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 3.5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The pace of increase in the number of bankruptcies of firms had slowed. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been in the range of 1.0-1.5 percent. Regarding the state of Japan's economy, members shared the view that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that economic developments since the previous meeting had been generally in line with the Bank's outlook in the January 2025 Outlook Report. Regarding the outlook for economic activity, members shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate. Members shared the recognition that exports and industrial production had been more or less flat. Members agreed that business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend with corporate profits being on an improving trend. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members shared the recognition that firms were projected to continue to raise wages steadily in 2025. Some members also pointed out that the wage growth rate was relatively high not only at large firms but also at relatively small firms, suggesting that a wider range of firms had been raising wages. Members concurred that private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently. Members expressed the view that, although the recent inflation rate had been within the projected range, it had been somewhat higher due to the rise in food prices. Members concurred that there remained high uncertainties surrounding Japan's economic activity and prices. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. One of these members expressed the view that the current level of long-term interest rates was still low compared to firms' expected returns. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to maintain the guideline for money market operations. Members shared the following basic thinking: given that real interest rates were at significantly low levels, if the outlook for economic activity and prices was realized, the Bank would accordingly continue to raise the policy interest rate. A different member pointed out that, for the time being, it was appropriate for the Bank to pay close attention to the policies of the new U.S. administration. Members shared the view that it was necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.5 percent. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of January 23 and 24, 2025, for release on March 25. The guideline for money market operations for the intermeeting period will be as follows. Japan's economy has recovered moderately, although some weakness has been seen in part. The government expected the Bank to conduct monetary policy as appropriate toward sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target of 2 percent while closely cooperating with the government. The government assessed that the Japanese economy was recovering at a moderate pace, although it was still pausing in part. The government would pay close attention to price developments and respond to them as appropriate. The government expected the Bank to conduct monetary policy as appropriate toward achieving the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable and stable manner, while closely cooperating with the government.