Frankfurt am Main, 23 July 2024 I am pleased to welcome you to this research conference, jointly organised by the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the IMF Economic Review. The focus of this conference on new global challenges for international fiscal and monetary policy is directly relevant to the work of the ECB. Policy institutions rely on academic research for the analytical foundations that guide our economic and financial assessments and our policy decisions . In looking at the programme for this conference, I was impressed by the progress that is evident across several research dimensions. The combination of methodological developments and the increased availability of granular data is facilitating much richer analysis and more informative quantitative estimation of the impact of various types of shocks and, crucially, the impact of various types of policy measures. The vulnerability of a region to an external shock depends not only on direct trade linkages but also on exposures via integrated supply chains. Similarly, the impact of a financial shock depends on the nature of the frictions that determine access to finance, together with the network of bilateral financial linkages that lie beneath the international financial system. Of course, any individual research contribution will have to focus on the types of heterogeneity that are most relevant for the question being studied - not all types of heterogeneity are equally important for all shocks. From my perspective, it is essential that the ECB both supports these research developments and incorporates the emerging insights into the policy process. In terms of macroeconomic analysis, a range of multi-sectoral, multi-country and heterogeneous-agent models are in development at the ECB. In terms of the information set that forms the basis for our monetary policy meetings, surveys are playing an increasingly prominent role. Typically, these are analysed in combination with bank-level, firm-level and household-level datasets. The surveys conducted by the ECB are central to the policy process: the bank lending survey (BLS); the survey on the access to finance of enterprises (SAFE); the Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS); the Corporate Telephone Survey (CTS); the Consumer Expectations Survey (CES); the Survey of Monetary Analysts (SMA); and the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF). With respect to wages, the newly-developed ECB wage tracker is based on granular data on collective bargaining agreements, allowing the ECB to interpret the latest signals on developments in wages in the euro area and conduct sectoral analysis that can shed light on the connection between wages and prices. I am confident that the papers presented at this conference will make a valuable contribution to advancing this exciting research programme. The wider availability of timely granular information on balance sheets, millions of individual loans and their lending rates (for example in the European AnaCredit credit register) and deposit rates for euro area monetary financial institutions has offered increasingly detailed insights into bank-based transmission. We now have evidence that firm and bank balance sheet constraints can amplify the contraction in credit availability brought about by policy tightening. Slides