Bank Rate increased to 5.25% - August 2023 The Committee has decided in this forecast to bring some of the upside risks to inflation from persistence into its modal projection, pushing up on this inflation projection in the medium term relative to the May Report. At this meeting, the Committee voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 5.25%. The MPC will ensure that Bank Rate is sufficiently restrictive for sufficiently long to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The Committee continues to judge that risks around the modal inflation forecast are skewed to the upside, albeit by less than in May, reflecting the possibility that the second-round effects of external cost shocks on inflation in wages and domestic prices take longer to unwind than they did to emerge. The MPC noted that the significant increases in Bank Rate since December 2021, and the move up across the yield curve as a whole over the same period, had tightened the overall stance of monetary policy, restricting demand relative to supply. Monetary policy will ensure that CPI inflation returns to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term. The MPC will continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures and resilience in the economy as a whole, including the tightness of labour market conditions and the behaviour of wage growth and services price inflation. Two members judged that a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 5.5%, was warranted at this meeting. One member preferred to leave Bank Rate unchanged at 5% at this meeting. Bank Rate should be increased by 0.25 percentage points, to 5.25%. Six members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Megan Greene, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Three members voted against the proposition. Two members (Jonathan Haskel and Catherine L Mann) preferred to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 5.5%. Swati Dhingra preferred to maintain Bank Rate at 5%. The MPC would continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures and resilience in the economy as a whole. If there were to be evidence of more persistent pressures, then further tightening in monetary policy would be required.