Bank Rate maintained at 5.25% At this meeting, the Committee voted to maintain Bank Rate at 5.25%. CPI inflation is expected to remain near to its current rate around the turn of the year. The MPC’s remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Monetary policy will ensure that CPI inflation returns to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term. The Committee continues to judge that monetary policy is likely to need to be restrictive for an extended period of time. Further tightening in monetary policy would be required if there were evidence of more persistent inflationary pressures. CPI inflation has fallen back broadly as expected, while there has been some downside news in private sector regular AWE growth. Annual private sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) growth declined to 7.3% in the three months to October. Twelve-month CPI inflation fell sharply from 6.7% in September to 4.6% in October. The near-term path for CPI inflation is somewhat lower than projected in the November Report, in part reflecting recent declines in energy prices. The Committee continues to consider a wide range of data on developments in labour market activity. Employment growth is likely to have softened, and there has been further evidence of some loosening in the labour market. UK GDP was flat in 2023 Q3, in line with the November Report projection, and fell by 0.3% in October. The Committee discussed the relative extent of disinflation across advanced economies and the risks around the global inflation outlook. Consumer price inflation had declined more quickly in the euro area and the United States over recent months than had been expected in the November Report. Looking forward, domestically generated inflationary pressures in most advanced economies remained elevated and could yet keep headline inflation above central bank targets for some time. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. As anticipated, tighter monetary policy was leading to a looser labour market and was weighing on activity in the real economy more generally. The Committee would continue to monitor closely the impact on activity and inflation of the significant increase in Bank Rate. Six members judged that maintaining Bank Rate at 5.25% was warranted at this meeting. Three members preferred a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 5.5%, at this meeting. The MPC would continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures and resilience in the economy as a whole. The decision whether to increase or to maintain Bank Rate at this meeting was again finely balanced between the risks of not tightening policy enough when underlying inflationary pressures could prove more persistent, and the risks of tightening policy too much given the impact of policy that was still to come through. The Committee had continued to judge that the risks to its modal inflation projection were skewed to the upside. The framework recognised that there would be occasions when inflation would depart from the target as a result of shocks and disturbances.