Bank Rate increased to 0.5% - February 2022 The Committee judges that an increase in Bank Rate of 0.25 percentage points is warranted at this meeting. The extent of any further tightening in monetary policy will depend on the medium-term prospects for inflation. CPI inflation is projected to fall back to a little above the 2% target in two years’ time and to below the target by a greater margin in three years. The MPC’s remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Global and UK activity returned to their pre-Covid-19 (Covid) levels towards the end of last year. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate fell to 4.1% in the three months to November, and is expected to fall further in the near term, to 3.8% in 2022 Q1. Underlying earnings growth is estimated to have remained above pre-pandemic rates, and is expected to strengthen over the coming year, to around 4¾%. Twelve-month CPI inflation rose from 5.1% in November to 5.4% in December, almost 1 percentage point higher than expected at the time of the November Report. The projected overshoot of inflation relative to the 2% target mainly reflects global energy and tradable goods prices. The Committee also reaffirms its preference in most circumstances to use Bank Rate as its active policy tool when adjusting the stance of monetary policy. The Committee will update its assessment on the balance of the risks to medium-term inflation in light of the relevant data as they emerge. CPI inflation was projected to increase further in coming months, to close to 6% in February and March and peaking at around 7¼% in April when higher utility price caps were due to be implemented. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The Committee reviewed recent developments against the backdrop of its updated central projections for activity and inflation as set out in the accompanying February Monetary Policy Report. UK GDP was estimated to have risen by 0.9% in November. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate had fallen to 4.1% in the three months to November, 0.4 percentage points lower than had been expected at the time of the November Report. The ratio of vacancies to unemployment had increased, to another record high. Underlying earnings growth was estimated to have remained above pre-pandemic rates, and was expected to strengthen over the coming year, to around 4¾%. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen from 5.1% in November to 5.4% in December, almost 1 percentage point higher than had been expected at the time of the November Report. Three-quarters of the projected increase in inflation between December and April was expected to reflect higher contributions from energy and goods prices. The HM Treasury representative had briefed the Committee on the Government’s policy plans in response to Ofgem’s forthcoming price cap announcement. CPI inflation was expected to increase further in coming months, to close to 6% in February and March, before peaking at around 7¼% in April. Given the current tightness of the labour market and continuing signs of greater persistence in domestic cost and price pressures, all members of the Committee judged that an increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. Five members judged that a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. Four members judged that a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. The decision to initiate this programme of corporate bond sales reflected the specific characteristics of the corporate bond market and the MPC’s involvement in it. The Committee reaffirmed its preference in most circumstances to use Bank Rate as its active policy tool when adjusting the stance of monetary policy. The extent of any further tightening in monetary policy would depend on the medium-term prospects for inflation. The MPC judged that, if the economy developed broadly in line with the February Report central projections, some further modest tightening in monetary policy was likely to be appropriate in the coming months.