Bank Rate maintained at 4% - September 2025 At its meeting ending on 17 September 2025, the MPC voted by a majority of 7–2 to maintain Bank Rate at 4%. The Committee voted by a majority of 7–2 to reduce the stock of UK government bond purchases held for monetary policy purposes, and financed by the issuance of central bank reserves, by £70 billion over the next 12 months, to a total of £488 billion. The Committee remains focused on squeezing out any existing or emerging persistent inflationary pressures, to return inflation sustainably to its 2% target in the medium term. Underlying disinflation has generally continued, although with greater progress in easing wage pressures than prices. Twelve-month CPI inflation was 3.8% in August, and is expected to increase slightly in September, before falling towards the 2% target thereafter. The Committee remains alert to the risk that this temporary increase in inflation could put additional upward pressure on the wage and price-setting process. Pay growth remains elevated, but has fallen and is expected to slow significantly over the rest of the year. Underlying UK GDP growth has remained subdued, consistent with a continued, gradual loosening in the labour market, as well as a margin of slack in the economy. Downside domestic and geopolitical risks around economic activity remain. A gradual and careful approach to the further withdrawal of monetary policy restraint remains appropriate. The timing and pace of future reductions in the restrictiveness of policy will depend on the extent to which underlying disinflationary pressures continue to ease. Seven members preferred to maintain Bank Rate at 4% at this meeting. Two members preferred a 0.25 percentage point reduction in Bank Rate. The Committee judged that a gradual and careful approach to the further withdrawal of monetary policy restraint remained appropriate. In line with the commitment made in the August 2022 MPC minutes, the Committee had again reviewed the pace of reduction in the stock of UK government bonds (gilts) held for monetary policy purposes in the Asset Purchase Facility (APF), a process known as quantitative tightening (QT). The MPC would continue to be guided by a set of key principles. The Committee had set out its latest assessment of QT in the August 2025 Monetary Policy Report. At its September 2025 meeting, the Committee considered the case for the Bank to reduce the stock of UK government bond purchases held for monetary policy purposes by £70 billion from October 2025 to September 2026, of which £21 billion would be through gilt sales. Seven members supported that stock reduction. One member preferred to maintain the pace of QT at £100 billion over the coming year to provide continuity and consistency in the MPC’s approach. One member preferred to slow the pace of QT to £62 billion, retaining £13 billion of sales. The Financial Policy Committee (FPC) had been briefed ahead of the MPC’s decision. All MPC members reaffirmed that there would be a high bar for amending the planned reduction in the stock of purchased gilts outside a scheduled annual review. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the propositions that: Bank Rate should be maintained at 4%; and Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Sarah Breeden, Megan Greene, Clare Lombardelli, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the first proposition. Two members (Swati Dhingra and Alan Taylor) voted against this proposition, preferring to reduce Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 3.75%. Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Sarah Breeden, Swati Dhingra, Megan Greene, Clare Lombardelli, Dave Ramsden and Alan Taylor) voted in favour of the second proposition. One member preferred a stock reduction of £62 billion. One member preferred a stock reduction of £100 billion. On 17 September, the stock of UK government bonds held for monetary policy purposes was £558 billion. At this meeting, the MPC had voted to reduce the stock of UK government bond purchases held for monetary policy purposes by £70 billion over the 12-month period from October 2025 to September 2026. The details of the first quarter of the associated gilt sales programme, covering 2025 Q4, were set out in a Market Notice accompanying these minutes. For the year starting 2025 Q4, the Bank would aim to sell fewer long maturity sector gilts than gilts at other maturities.