Bank Rate increased to 0.25% - December 2021 The Committee judges that an increase in Bank Rate of 0.15 percentage points is warranted at this meeting. Twelve-month CPI inflation rose from 3.1% in September to 5.1% in November, triggering the exchange of open letters between the Governor and the Chancellor of the Exchequer that is being published alongside this monetary policy announcement. The MPC’s remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The level of global GDP in 2021 Q4 is likely to be broadly in line with the November Report projection, but consumer price inflation in advanced economies has risen by more than expected. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate fell to 4.2% in the three months to October, while the number of payrolled employees continued to rise strongly in November. Bank staff have revised down their expectations for the level of UK GDP in 2021 Q4 by around ½% since the November Report, leaving GDP around 1½% below its pre-Covid level. The FPC had also reviewed its mortgage market Recommendations, including considering how its measures had operated since they had been put in place. Global cost pressures had remained strong and inflation had risen by more in advanced economies than had been expected in the November Report. The MPC discussed the outlook for global inflation. The path for market-implied policy rates in the United States had risen somewhat since the MPC’s previous meeting. In the United Kingdom, market-implied expectations for the path of Bank Rate had fallen sharply immediately following the MPC’s November meeting. Retail sales volumes had increased in October, leaving the GDP growth in October had been a little weaker than expected, at 0.1%. In both September and October, growth had been driven in part by increases in health spending, reflecting strong non-Covid activity such as doctor appointments. There had also been growth in transport and work-related activities, which had reflected the return of workers to offices and higher mobility in general. By contrast, output in some business-to-business services, such as information and communications, and finance, had weakened. Construction output had fallen in October, although this had followed a sharp rise in September. Supply chain disruptions had remained acute, but did not appear to have weighed on activity by more than had been anticipated in the November Report. This was consistent with there having been little news to the level of output in those sectors that had previously been most affected by disruptions, such as manufacturing and construction. The global semiconductor shortage had continued to weigh on car production in particular, and there had been evidence that low availability had constrained new car purchases. According to the latest IHS Markit/CIPS manufacturing PMI surveys, supplier delivery times had continued to lengthen in November, and backlogs of work had continued to rise. Other indicators had also shown no easing in supply chain disruptions. The proportion of firms reporting non-labour input disruptions and significant recruitment difficulties in the November Decision Maker Panel had increased slightly, and the Bank’s Agents had reported an increase in the number of contacts reporting constraints to growth, primarily due to labour shortages but also demand for goods becoming harder to fulfil due to supply chain disruptions. An increasing number of Agents’ contacts had also reported that they expected supply issues to persist until the second half of 2022, and possibly 2023 or 2024 in some cases. Retail sales volumes had increased in October, leaving the level of sales around 5½% above its pre-Covid level. Some indicators of card spending suggested retail spending had remained robust in November. The Bank’s Agents had reported companies’ concerns about being able to meet demand for Christmas, and that a lack of stock availability was reducing consumer choice. Looking ahead, the emergence and spread of the Omicron variant was likely to encourage goods, relative to services, spending, as the goods-to-income ratio had returned to around its pre-Covid level. The number of Covid cases had picked up in the days leading up to the MPC’s December meeting. With the identification of the Omicron variant, measures had been put in place in England at the end of November and during the first few days of December. On 8 December, the UK Government had announced that additional measures would be introduced for England, including: guidance on working from home wherever possible; extending the legal requirement to wear a face covering to further public venues; daily testing for contacts of Omicron cases; and the introduction of Covid passes for nightclubs as well as events with large crowds. In the devolved nations, a number of measures were already in place, such as wearing face coverings in public places, advice to work from home and Covid passes. On 12 December, the UK Coronavirus alert level had been raised to level four, as transmission of the new variant was judged to be high or rising exponentially, and the UK Government had announced a plan for all those eligible in England to be offered a booster vaccine by the end of this year, while offering additional support to Devolved Administrations to accelerate their vaccination programmes. On 14 December, the UK Government had announced that it would remove the countries on the UK’s travel red list and, in Scotland, people had been advised to limit socialising to three households and physical distancing measures in shops and hospitality venues had been re-introduced. There had been some tentative signs that economic activity had started to be affected by the emergence and spread of Omicron in late November. The number of OpenTable seated diners had fallen in recent weeks, although some of this had probably reflected the impact of storm Arwen at the end of November. UK retail footfall and passenger flight numbers had been flat on the weeks to 4 and 5 December respectively. However, mobility data had suggested a moderate decline in public transport use in early December. Overall, Bank staff had revised down their expectations for 2021 Q4 GDP growth to 0.6%, from 1% at the time of the November Report. News to the level of GDP up to October, and the impact from Omicron and associated measures in December, meant that Bank staff now expected GDP in Q4 to be around 1½% below its 2019 Q4 level. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate had fallen to 4.2% in the three months to October, 0.2 percentage points below expectations at the time of the November Monetary Policy Report. Within that, the number of people who had been unemployed for up to six months had remained around its recent record low, although the number of people unemployed for over twelve months had remained higher than prior to the pandemic. LFS employment had increased by 0.5% in the three months to October, to 1.3% below its 2019 Q4 level, slightly weaker than expected in the November Report. Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) employee payrolls had risen strongly by 257,000 in the single month of November, although these initial estimates had tended to be revised down somewhat. Payrolls growth had been revised down in October, for example, from 160,000 to 74,000. Overall, there was little sign in the available official data that the closure of the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (CJRS) at the end of September had led to a weakening in the labour market. Average hours worked had continued to increase in the three months to October, as those on furlough had returned to work, and were now only just over 1% below their 2019 Q4 level. The LFS inactivity rate had been unchanged in the three months to October, and was still around ¾ percentage points higher than immediately prior to the pandemic. General government employment, based on returns from public sector organisations, had increased by around 219,000 in 2021 Q3 compared with its 2019 Q4 level. LFS flows data suggested that recent increases in public sector employment could be almost entirely accounted for by moves from private sector employment. The stock of job vacancies recorded by the ONS had reached 1.2 million in the three months to November, and the ratio of vacancies to unemployment had also reached another record high since a consistent series had been available from 2001. Those increases appeared to reflect strong demand for labour, as labour market flows data up to 2021 Q3 had shown a similarly strong pace of new hiring. The implied average duration of vacancies and Bank staff estimates of labour market matching efficiency had been around pre-Covid levels. More timely indicators of labour market activity had generally remained robust. The IHS Markit/CIPS composite employment PMI had fallen slightly in November, but had remained at a historically elevated level. The REC permanent staff placements and staff availability indices had remained close to recent record high and low levels respectively in November. Contacts of the Bank’s Agents in a range of sectors had reported wanting to take on more staff to meet increased demand, and staff turnover had remained higher than normal for many companies. Recruitment difficulties had also been reported to have become more widespread and acute, particularly for the hiring of experienced staff. Early indications following the emergence and spread of Omicron in the United Kingdom suggested that Adzuna vacancies had fallen back somewhat in the hospitality and catering sector. Overall, Bank staff now expected the LFS unemployment rate to fall to around 4% in 2021 Q4, compared with the 4½% projection in the November Report. Abstracting from the risks from the impact of Omicron, it was possible that the unemployment rate could fall further over coming months if hiring continued to keep pace with the current elevated levels of vacancies. Any weakness in demand related to the new variant could offset those forces to some extent. Private-sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) had risen by 4.7% in the three months to October on a year earlier, weaker than earlier in the year but broadly in line with expectations at the time of the November Report. Adjusted for the mechanical effects of the CJRS and changes in composition, Bank staff estimated that private sector regular pay growth had remained at around 4½%, above pre-pandemic rates of around 3%. Other pay indicators had remained strong, consistent with a continuation of the current pace of underlying earnings growth in the near term. The REC permanent staff salaries index, which measured the monthly pay growth of new permanent hires, had increased to another record high in November. Job-to-job flows had reached a record high in 2021 Q3, with particular strength in the number of voluntary resignations. Median pay growth based on HMRC payrolls data had fallen back somewhat from its peak in mid-2021. Looking ahead, a number of contacts of the Bank’s Agents expected further upward pressure on pay growth next year, in part as strength in consumer price inflation could encourage workers to demand higher pay settlements. Overall, should the labour market remain tight, there appeared to be upside risks around the projections in the November Report for earnings growth to fall back significantly over the coming year. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen from 3.1% in September to 5.1% in November, compared with the 4.5% figure expected in the November Report. Core inflation had also risen to 4.0% in November. Relative to the November Report projection, there had been significant upside news in core goods and, to a lesser extent, services price inflation. CPI inflation was expected to remain around 5% through the majority of the winter period, and peak at around 6% in April 2022. The latter would be around one percentage point higher than had been expected in the November Report. The further rise in inflation next spring would in large part reflect current developments in wholesale gas and electricity futures prices, which would feed into Ofgem’s retail price caps from April. Movements in wholesale prices over much of the period following the November Report had been broadly consistent with Bank staff’s baseline assumptions of how much these caps were likely to increase, but gas and electricity futures prices had picked up sharply in the days leading up to the MPC’s meeting which implied additional upside pressure on utility price inflation if this persisted. The fall in oil prices since the MPC’s previous meeting would have a small, and only partly offsetting, negative effect on energy price inflation over coming months. Core goods price inflation was expected to remain well above its pre-Covid average in the near term, accounting for the majority of the remainder of the projected above-target inflation. Services price inflation was projected to remain at above pre-Covid rates and increase somewhat further. Food price inflation was also expected to rise further, reflecting cost increases over recent months. Other indicators of cost and price pressures had remained at historically elevated levels recently. Both the composite input and output price PMIs had reached new record highs in November. A short-term model constructed by Bank staff of CPI inflation excluding energy, housing, education and financial services, based on such survey indicators of price pressures, suggested some additional upside risks around the updated central projection for inflation over the next six months. The Bank’s Agents had reported that rising costs were increasingly and more frequently being passed through to prices, and that contacts expected further price increases next year driven in large part by pay and energy costs. CPI inflation was still expected to fall back in the second half of next year. Since the MPC’s previous meeting, households’ one-year ahead inflation expectations had risen in the 2021 Q4 Bank/Kantar survey, but had remained unchanged in the December Citi/YouGov survey albeit at a higher level. Medium to longer-term household expectations in these surveys had picked up over recent quarters. The Citi/YouGov five to ten-year ahead measure had remained above its historical average, while the Bank/Kantar five-year ahead measure was still slightly below its historical average albeit that there was a break in this series in early 2020 due to the shift from face-to-face to online surveys. The mean response to questions on three-year and four-year ahead inflation in the HM Treasury survey of professional forecasters had increased significantly recently, but the median response was still consistent with the MPC meeting its 2% inflation target. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. In the MPC’s central projections in the November Monetary Policy Report, global and UK GDP had been expected to recover further from the effects of Covid in the near term. UK consumption growth had been expected to slow over the forecast period, in part reflecting the drag on real incomes from higher energy prices. Conditioned on the rising path for Bank Rate expected by financial markets at that time, upward pressure on UK CPI inflation had been expected to dissipate over time, as supply disruption eased, global demand rebalanced from goods to services, and energy prices stopped rising. Earnings growth had also been expected to fall back from its current rate. As a result, inflation had been projected to fall back materially from the second half of next year. Conditioned on the rising market path for Bank Rate at that time, CPI inflation had been projected to be a little above the 2% target in two years’ time and just below the target at the end of the forecast period. Since the November MPC meeting, the Omicron Covid variant had emerged. It appeared to be spreading rapidly within the United Kingdom and around the world. The new variant appeared to be much more transmissible than the Delta variant and, on the basis of current knowledge, posed new risks to public health. The Committee reviewed recent economic developments, most of which pre-dated any possible impact from the emergence and spread of the Omicron variant. The level of global GDP in 2021 Q4 was likely to be broadly in line with the November Report projection, but consumer price inflation in advanced economies had risen by more than expected. The Omicron variant posed downside risks to activity in early 2022, although the balance of its effects on demand and supply, and hence on medium-term global inflationary pressures, was unclear. Global cost pressures had remained strong. Notwithstanding an apparent stabilisation in shipping prices, global supply chains had remained heavily disrupted. Companies had reported higher levels of material shortages in the United States and in the euro area. Global risky asset prices had fallen in response to the emergence of the Omicron variant, but had since largely recovered. Longer-term advanced-economy government bond yields had declined. Market contacts were expecting Bank Rate to rise in the coming months. In the days running up to the MPC’s December meeting, most contacts had expected Bank Rate to remain at 0.1% at this meeting. Following the UK CPI release on 15 December, however, market pricing had become more finely balanced between Bank Rate remaining at 0.1% and an increase of 15 basis points at this meeting. As of 15 December 2021, the total stock of assets held in the Asset Purchase Facility had reached £893 billion, including £149 billion of the £150 billion programme of UK government bond purchases announced on 5 November 2020. Including the final gilt purchase auction that was being conducted on 15 December, the programme was due to be completed by the time of the Committee’s December policy announcement. The Committee had also been briefed by Bank staff on progress towards investing the cash flows associated with reductions in the stock of sterling non-financial investment-grade corporate bond purchases held by the Asset Purchase Facility back into eligible corporate bonds, which had commenced in November 2021. The number of Covid cases in the United Kingdom had picked up in the days leading up to the MPC’s December meeting and, upon the identification of the Omicron variant, measures had been put in place in England and had been extended in the devolved nations. On 12 December, the Coronavirus alert level had been raised to level four, and the UK Government had announced a plan for all those eligible in England to be offered a booster vaccine by the end of this year, while offering additional support to Devolved Administrations to accelerate their vaccination programmes. Bank staff had revised down their expectations for the level of UK GDP in 2021 Q4 by around ½% since the November Report, leaving GDP around 1½% below its pre-Covid level. Growth in many sectors had continued to be restrained by disruption in supply chains and shortages of labour. The impact of the Omicron variant, associated additional measures introduced by the UK Government and Devolved Administrations, and voluntary social distancing would push down on GDP in December and in 2022 Q1. The experience since March 2020 suggested that successive waves of Covid appeared to have had less impact on GDP, although there was uncertainty around the extent to which that would prove to be the case on this occasion. There had already been some tentative signs that UK economic activity had started to be affected by the emergence and spread of Omicron. As in previous Covid waves, headline GDP was still likely to be affected significantly by the ways in which public-sector output was measured in the UK national accounts. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate had fallen to 4.2% in the three months to October, while the number of payrolled employees had continued to rise strongly in November. There was little sign in the available data that the closure of the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme at the end of September had led to a weakening in the labour market. The LFS unemployment rate was now expected to fall to around 4% in 2021 Q4, compared with the 4½% projection in the November Report. Bank staff continued to estimate that underlying earnings growth had remained above pre-pandemic rates, and the Committee continued to see upside risks around the projection for pay in the November Report. The REC permanent staff salaries index and job-to-job flows had both increased to record highs, and contacts of the Bank’s Agents expected strength in consumer price inflation to encourage workers to demand higher pay settlements. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen from 3.1% in September to 5.1% in November, 0.6 percentage points higher than had been expected at the time of the November Report. The MPC's remit was clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. At its November meeting, the Committee had judged that, provided the incoming data, particularly on the labour market, were broadly in line with the central projections in the November Monetary Policy Report, it would be necessary over coming months to increase Bank Rate in order to return CPI inflation sustainably to the 2% target. At this meeting, most members of the Committee judged that an immediate, small increase in Bank Rate was warranted. The Committee would, as always, continue to monitor very closely the risk that domestic and global demand and cost pressures could affect medium-term inflation expectations, and so wage and price setting. One member of the Committee judged that, were it not for the emergence of the Omicron variant, an increase in Bank Rate could have been appropriate at this meeting. The MPC would review developments, including emerging evidence on the implications for the economy of the Omicron variant, as part of its forthcoming forecast round ahead of the February 2022 Monetary Policy Report. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the propositions that: Bank Rate should be increased by 0.15 percentage points, to 0.25%; Eight members voted in favour of the first proposition. Silvana Tenreyro voted against this proposition, preferring to maintain Bank Rate at 0.1%.