Bank Rate maintained at 5.25% - March 2024 At this meeting, the Committee voted to maintain Bank Rate at 5.25%. CPI inflation is projected to fall to slightly below the 2% target in 2024 Q2, marginally weaker than previously expected owing to the freeze in fuel duty announced in the Budget. The MPC’s remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Monetary policy will need to remain restrictive for sufficiently long to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term in line with the MPC’s remit. The Committee has judged since last autumn that monetary policy needs to be restrictive for an extended period of time until the risk of inflation becoming embedded above the 2% target dissipates. The Committee will keep under review for how long Bank Rate should be maintained at its current level. Twelve-month CPI inflation fell to 3.4% in February from 4.0% in January and December, a little below the expectation in the February Monetary Policy Report. Services price inflation has remained elevated, at 6.1% in February. The fiscal measures in Spring Budget 2024 are likely to increase the level of GDP by around ¼% over coming years. UK real GDP had fallen by 0.3% in 2023 Q4, weaker than had been expected in the February Monetary Policy Report. Monthly GDP had risen by 0.2% in January, to its highest level since September 2023. The Spring Budget 2024 had taken place on 6 March, accompanied by an Economic and fiscal outlook from the Office for Budget Responsibility. The Committee discussed the increasing convergence and correlated movements in recent months between market expectations for the UK and US policy rate paths. The job vacancies rate in particular had continued to decline across countries. Annual private sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) growth had been 6.1% in the three months to January, 1.1 percentage points lower than in the three months to October. Energy prices had continued to drag on annual CPI inflation. Core goods price inflation had fallen to 1.9% in February, slightly lower than expected in the February Report. The Committee discussed some factors that might influence the global long-term real equilibrium interest rate. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The MPC’s remit was clear that the inflation target applied at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Monetary policy would need to remain restrictive for sufficiently long to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term in line with the MPC’s remit. Eight members judged that maintaining Bank Rate at 5.25% was warranted at this meeting. The restrictive stance of monetary policy was weighing on activity in the real economy, was leading to a looser labour market and was bearing down on inflationary pressures. One member preferred a 0.25 percentage point reduction in Bank Rate at this meeting. The MPC remained prepared to adjust monetary policy as warranted by economic data to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably. Bank Rate should be maintained at 5.25%. Eight members (Andrew Bailey, Sarah Breeden, Ben Broadbent, Megan Greene, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill, Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Swati Dhingra voted against the proposition, preferring to reduce Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 5%.