Bank Rate increased to 4% - February 2023 The Committee has voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 4%, at this meeting. CPI inflation is expected to fall to around 4% towards the end of this year. The MPC will continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures. The MPC will adjust Bank Rate as necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. Global consumer price inflation remains high, although it is likely to have peaked across many advanced economies, including in the United Kingdom. UK domestic inflationary pressures have been firmer than expected. The labour market remains tight by historical standards, although it has started to loosen. The extent to which domestic inflationary pressures ease will depend on the evolution of the economy. There are considerable uncertainties around the outlook. The Committee discussed movements in UK medium-term inflation compensation measures. Household consumption had contracted by 1.1% in 2022 Q3. Business investment had been weak for some time and had fallen by 2.5% in 2022 Q3. The labour market had remained tight. Twelve-month CPI inflation had edged down to 10.5% in December. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. UK domestic inflationary pressures had been firmer than expected. Both private sector regular pay growth and services CPI inflation had been notably higher than forecast in the November Monetary Policy Report. The unemployment rate had been 3.7% in the three months to November, below the MPC’s assessment of the long-term equilibrium rate of unemployment, which stood at just above 4%. CPI inflation was projected to fall to around 4% towards the end of this year. Seven members judged that a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 4%, was warranted at this meeting. Two members preferred to leave Bank Rate unchanged at 3.5% at this meeting. The extent to which domestic inflationary pressures eased would depend on the evolution of the economy. The MPC would continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures, including the tightness of labour market conditions and the behaviour of wage growth and services inflation. Looking further ahead, the MPC would adjust Bank Rate as necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit.