Bank Rate increased to 4.5% - May 2023 The Committee has voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 4.5%, at this meeting. The MPC will adjust Bank Rate as necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The pace at which domestic inflationary pressures ease will depend on the evolution of the economy, including the impact of the significant increases in Bank Rate so far. The MPC will continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures, including the tightness of labour market conditions and the behaviour of wage growth and services price inflation. Seven members judged that a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 4.5%, was warranted at this meeting. Two members preferred to leave Bank Rate unchanged at 4.25% at this meeting. The Committee continues to judge that the risks around the inflation forecast are skewed significantly to the upside. CPI inflation is expected to fall sharply from April, in part as large rises in the price level one year ago drop out of the annual comparison. The MPC’s remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The MPC would adjust Bank Rate as necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. Bank Rate should be increased by 0.25 percentage points, to 4.5%. Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Two members (Swati Dhingra and Silvana Tenreyro) voted against the proposition, preferring to maintain Bank Rate at 4.25%. Uncertainties around the global financial and economic outlook remained elevated. The pace at which domestic inflationary pressures eased would depend on the evolution of the economy, including the impact of the significant increases in Bank Rate so far. The MPC would continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures, including the tightness of labour market conditions and the behaviour of wage growth and services price inflation. If there were to be evidence of more persistent pressures, then further tightening in monetary policy would be required.