Bank Rate increased to 5% - June 2023 At this meeting, the Committee voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 5%. CPI inflation is expected to fall significantly further during the course of the year, in the main reflecting developments in energy prices. The MPC will adjust Bank Rate as necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The Committee discussed the possible drivers of the increases in interest rates. Annual growth in private sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) increased to 7.6% in the three months to April, 0.5 percentage points above the expectation at the time of the May Report. The sterling effective exchange rate has appreciated further. The unemployment rate has been flat at 3.8%, in line with the May Report. The MPC recognises that the second-round effects in domestic price and wage developments generated by external cost shocks are likely to take longer to unwind than they did to emerge. The Committee is continuing to monitor closely the impact of the significant increases in Bank Rate so far. Business surveys continue to suggest underlying quarterly GDP growth of around ¼% during the middle of this year. The MPC will continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures in the economy as a whole, including the tightness of labour market conditions and the behaviour of wage growth and services price inflation. The outlook for 2023 Q3 was more uncertain, but Bank staff continued to judge that an underlying quarterly growth rate of around ¼% was a reasonable central projection. The increase in mortgage rates so far during this cycle had, however, already led to higher aggregate interest payments by households, and this metric was likely to rise further. The MPC’s remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The Committee discussed the international economy; monetary and financial conditions; demand and output; and supply, costs and prices. CPI inflation was expected to fall significantly further during the course of the year, mainly reflecting developments in energy prices. The Committee was continuing to monitor closely the impact of the significant increases in Bank Rate so far. The MPC would adjust Bank Rate as necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. Seven members judged that a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 5%, was warranted at this meeting. Two members preferred to leave Bank Rate unchanged at 4.5% at this meeting. The MPC would continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures in the economy as a whole, including the tightness of labour market conditions and the behaviour of wage growth and services price inflation. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be increased by 0.5 percentage points, to 5%. Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Two members (Swati Dhingra and Silvana Tenreyro) voted against the proposition, preferring to maintain Bank Rate at 4.5%.