Bank Rate maintained at 4.5% - March 2025 At its meeting ending on 19 March 2025, the MPC voted by a majority of 8–1 to maintain Bank Rate at 4.5%. Twelve-month CPI inflation increased to 3.0% in January from 2.5% in December, slightly higher than expected in the February Report. Domestic price and wage pressures are moderating, but remain somewhat elevated. Although global energy prices have fallen back recently, they remain higher than last year and CPI inflation is still projected to rise to around 3¾% in 2025 Q3. While inflation is expected to fall back thereafter, the Committee will pay close attention to any consequent signs of more lasting inflationary pressures. The Committee will continue to monitor closely the risks of inflation persistence and what the evidence may reveal about the balance between aggregate supply and demand in the economy. The Committee will decide the appropriate degree of monetary policy restrictiveness at each meeting. UK-weighted global GDP was estimated to have grown by 0.5% in 2024 Q4, in line with the projection in the February Monetary Policy Report. The Committee judged that the consequent risks around the near-term outlook for activity in a number of advanced economies, including the United Kingdom, remained to the downside. The overall effect on UK inflation was less clear at present, and would depend on where other countries’ trade policies settled and how these transmitted through different economic channels, including exchange rates. The Committee noted that this was a rapidly evolving situation, which it would monitor closely and assess further in the May policy round. UK GDP had risen by 0.1% in 2024 Q4, above the -0.1% rate that had been expected in the February Monetary Policy Report. The level of GDP had fallen back by 0.1% on the month in January, largely reflecting weakness in manufacturing output. The Committee discussed the broader narrative behind recent weakness in activity. Economic uncertainties, both globally and domestically, had risen recently. Quality issues with the official labour market data continued to be an area of concern for the MPC. The overall weakening in these early-stage indicators suggested that some modest deterioration in late-stage indicators, such as redundancy and unemployment rates, should be expected over the coming months. Measures of labour market tightness had continued to ease slightly. The latest pay settlements and pay expectations data had been consistent with the February Report projection for pay growth to ease over the course of this year. The MPC noted that in February the ONS had announced that in a forthcoming release it would open up revisions to the AWE data over a longer back run than the usual revision to the preceding month’s estimate, to allow for late and updated returns from one business to be included. Twelve-month CPI inflation had increased to 3.0% in January from 2.5% in December. Core CPI inflation had also increased, to 3.7%, in line with expectations at the time of the February Report. The MPC would continue to assess global developments closely. The Committee stressed the importance for policy making of high quality and reliable official data across the full range of economic and labour market statistics. The labour market had continued to ease, although it was still judged to be broadly in balance. Domestic price and wage pressures were moderating, but remained somewhat elevated. The Committee would continue to monitor closely the risks of inflation persistence and what the evidence might reveal about the balance between aggregate supply and demand in the economy. At this meeting, eight members preferred to maintain Bank Rate at 4.5%. One member preferred a 0.25 percentage point reduction in Bank Rate, to 4.25%. The Committee would decide the appropriate degree of monetary policy restrictiveness at each meeting.