Short-term interest rate: Apply a negative interest rate of -0.1%. Long-term interest rate: To ensure that the 10-year government bond yield remains around 0%, we will purchase long-term government bonds without setting an upper limit on the necessary amount. The fluctuation range of long-term interest rates will be aimed at around ±0.5%, and we will operate the yield curve control more flexibly. We will continue large-scale government bond purchases and flexibly implement increases in purchase amounts, limit order operations, and common collateral funding operations for each maturity. Regarding the purchase of assets other than long-term government bonds, the following will apply. For ETFs and J-REITs, we will purchase as needed, with an upper limit of approximately 12 trillion yen and approximately 180 billion yen in annual balance increase pace, respectively. We will maintain a balance of approximately 2 trillion yen for CP, etc. Corporate bonds, etc. will be purchased at a pace similar to that before the pandemic, gradually returning the purchase balance to the level before the pandemic (approximately 3 trillion yen). However, adjustments to the purchase balance of corporate bonds, etc. will be made with sufficient consideration of the issuance environment for corporate bonds. The uncertainty surrounding our country's economy and prices is extremely high, influenced by overseas economic and price trends, resource price trends, and corporate wage and price-setting behavior. In this context, it is necessary to closely monitor the trends in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on our economy and prices. Prices in our country have been above the forecasts in the April outlook report, and the wage growth rate has been increasing against the backdrop of this year's spring labor negotiations. Signs of changes in corporate wage and price-setting behavior are observed, and there is a movement for expected inflation rates to rise again. If upward movements continue in the future, the effects of monetary easing will strengthen due to the decline in real interest rates, while strictly capping long-term interest rates may affect the functioning of the bond market and volatility in other financial markets. It is expected that the flexibility in the operation of yield curve control will help to mitigate these movements. On the other hand, the tightening of the global financial environment poses a high risk of downward pressure on our economy and prices, including its impact on overseas economies. If downward risks materialize, the framework of yield curve control will maintain easing effects by allowing long-term interest rates to decline. In order to achieve the 'price stability target' and sustain it stably, we will continue 'quantitative and qualitative monetary easing with yield curve control' until it is deemed necessary. Regarding the monetary base, we will continue the expansion policy until the year-on-year increase rate of the consumer price index (excluding fresh food) stabilizes above 2%. We will continue to strive to maintain the funding of businesses and the stability of financial markets, and if necessary, we will not hesitate to implement additional monetary easing measures. In favor: Members Ueda, Himino, Uchida, Adachi, Noguchi, Nakagawa, Takada, Tamura. Opposed: Member Nakamura. Member Nakamura expressed support for the flexibility in the operation of yield curve control but opposed it, stating that it would be preferable to confirm the improvement in corporate earnings capacity through corporate statistics before proceeding.