The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.25 percent. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, on a plan to reduce the amount of its monthly outright purchases of JGBs so that it will be about 3 trillion yen in January-March 2026. The interest rate applied to the complementary deposit facility will be 0.25 percent. The basic loan rate applicable under the complementary lending facility will be 0.5 percent. The Bank will provide the loans on a floating rate basis. The Bank judged it appropriate to adjust the degree of monetary accommodation from the perspective of sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target of 2 percent. The Bank will accordingly continue to raise the policy interest rate and adjust the degree of monetary accommodation. Nakamura Toyoaki dissented, considering that the Bank should decide on changing the guideline for money market operations after assessing sources such as the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry at the next MPM. Noguchi Asahi dissented, considering that it was necessary to more carefully assess how the economic situation had improved with wage hikes becoming widespread, based on relevant data. The new guideline for money market operations will be effective from August 1, 2024. The Bank will conduct the purchases in accordance with the decisions made at the March 2024 MPM. The new interest rate applied to the complementary deposit facility and the new basic loan rate will be effective from August 1, 2024. The Bank also decided to introduce a fixed-rate method for sales of Japanese government securities (JGSs) with repurchase agreements. The Bank will reduce its purchase amount of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) in a predictable manner, while allowing enough flexibility to support stability in the JGB markets. The Bank intends to maintain the plan for the reduction after the assessment, while it may modify the plan as appropriate, if deemed necessary after reviewing the developments in and functioning of the JGB markets. In the case of a rapid rise in long-term interest rates, it will make nimble responses by, for example, increasing the amount of JGB purchases and conducting fixed-rate purchase operations of JGBs. The Bank is prepared to amend the plan for the reduction of its purchase amount of JGBs at the MPMs, if deemed necessary.