Review for implementing more effective and sustainable monetary easing As a basic policy approach, it was judged that it is important to continue monetary easing in a sustainable manner to achieve the 2% 'price stability target' and to respond promptly and effectively to changes in the economic, price, and financial situation. From this perspective, the following measures were decided. To flexibly lower short- and long-term interest rates while considering the impact on financial intermediation functions, a 'Loan Promotion Interest Rate System' linked to the short-term policy interest rate will be established. Regarding yield curve control, to operate flexibly, it will be clarified that the fluctuation range of long-term interest rates is approximately ±0.25%. At the same time, to strongly set an upper limit on interest rates when necessary, a 'Continuous Fixed Rate Operation System' will be introduced. Regarding ETFs and J-REITs, the upper limit of the annual increase pace of approximately 12 trillion yen and approximately 1.8 trillion yen, decided as temporary measures in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, will be continued even after the pandemic subsides, and purchases will be made as necessary. The monetary market adjustment policy until the next monetary policy meeting will be as follows. To ensure that the 10-year government bond yield remains around 0%, necessary amounts of long-term government bonds will be purchased without setting an upper limit. Asset purchase policy (unanimous) Regarding the purchase of assets other than long-term government bonds, the following will apply. Regarding ETFs and J-REITs, purchases will be made as necessary, with an upper limit of approximately 12 trillion yen and approximately 1.8 trillion yen in annual balance increase pace. Regarding CPs and corporate bonds, purchases will be made with an upper limit of approximately 20 trillion yen in total until the end of September 2021. Continuing with (1) the special program for supporting cash flow in response to COVID-19, (2) abundant supply of yen and foreign currency without setting upper limits through government bond purchases and dollar operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs with annual increase pace limits of approximately 12 trillion yen and approximately 1.8 trillion yen, efforts will be made to support corporate cash flow and maintain stability in the financial market. For the time being, attention will be paid to the impact of COVID-19, and additional monetary easing measures will be taken without hesitation if necessary. Regarding the policy interest rate, it is assumed that it will remain at the current level of short- and long-term interest rates or below. Member Kataoka opposed, arguing that it would be desirable to strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates in response to the strengthening of downward pressure on prices and to support positive capital investment by companies in the post-COVID era.