Based on the above, it was decided to set the following guidelines for monetary market operations. Encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.1%. Continue purchasing long-term government bonds. In the event of a rapid rise in long-term interest rates, we will flexibly implement increases in purchase amounts, fixed-rate operations, and common collateral funding operations, regardless of the planned monthly purchase amount. End new purchases. Gradually reduce the purchase amount and aim to end purchases in one year. For the loan increase support fund supply, disaster-affected financial institution support operations, and climate change response operations, the lending rate will be set at 0.1% with a loan period of one year. The economy is gradually recovering, although some weak movements are observed. In terms of the wage environment, corporate profits continue to improve, and labor demand and supply are tightening. In terms of prices, the impact of price pass-through from previous increases in import prices is diminishing, but service prices continue to rise gradually due to the previous moderate wage increases. It has been judged that the situation has reached a point where the target of price stability can be achieved sustainably and stably. In favor: Members Ueda, Himino, Uchida, Adachi, Nakagawa, Takada, Tamura. Opposed: Members Nakamura, Noguchi. Member Nakamura is in favor of ending ETF purchases related mainly to large companies, but opposed the continuation of the negative interest rate policy until it is confirmed that the potential for wage increases for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are recovering slowly, has increased. Member Noguchi opposed the simultaneous abolition of long and short-term interest rate operations and the negative interest rate policy, as he believes it is necessary to carefully assess the strengthening of the virtuous cycle of wages and prices and to avoid risks that could lead to discontinuous changes in the financial environment. The monthly purchase amount of long-term government bonds is approximately 6 trillion yen. Actual purchases will be indicated with a certain range as before, and will be implemented based on market trends and government bond supply and demand. The overseas economy is experiencing a slowdown in its recovery pace. With the improvement in corporate profits, capital investment is showing a gradual upward trend. The employment and income environment is gradually improving. Personal consumption is showing resilience, despite the impact of rising prices and a decrease in automobile sales due to some manufacturers halting shipments. Public investment is moving within a flat range. In terms of prices, looking at the year-on-year consumer price index (excluding fresh food), the contribution of energy prices is a significant negative due to government economic measures, but the impact of price pass-through from previous increases in import prices is diminishing while service prices continue to rise gradually, resulting in a current level of around 2%. The expected inflation rate is gradually rising. Looking at risk factors, uncertainties surrounding the economy and prices in our country are extremely high, influenced by overseas economic and price trends, resource price movements, and corporate wage and price-setting behaviors.