Short-term interest rate: Apply a negative interest rate of -0.1%. Long-term interest rate: Conduct purchases of long-term government bonds in necessary amounts without setting an upper limit to keep the 10-year government bond yield around 0%. While significantly increasing the amount of government bond purchases, expand the fluctuation range of long-term interest rates from the previous '±0.25%' to '±0.5%.'. For the 10-year government bond yield, conduct fixed-rate operations at a yield of 0.5% every business day, except in cases where bidding is clearly not expected. Regarding the purchase of assets other than long-term government bonds, the following will apply. For ETFs and J-REITs, purchases will be made as needed, with an upper limit of approximately 12 trillion yen and 180 billion yen per year for each, respectively. For CPs and corporate bonds, purchases will be made at a pace similar to that before the pandemic, gradually returning the purchase balance to pre-pandemic levels (approximately 2 trillion yen for CPs and approximately 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds). The economy of our country is recovering, despite the impact of high resource prices, under the circumstances of balancing the suppression of COVID-19 and economic activities. The overseas economy is experiencing a slowdown in its recovery pace. Exports and industrial production are increasing as a trend, as the impact of supply constraints eases. Corporate profits are generally at a high level, and business sentiment is flat. Under these circumstances, capital investment is gradually increasing. The employment and income environment is generally improving gradually. Personal consumption is gradually increasing, despite being affected by the pandemic. Housing investment is showing weak movements. Public investment is moving within a flat range. The financial environment in our country is generally accommodative, although some tightness remains in corporate financing. In terms of prices, the year-on-year consumer price index (excluding fresh food) is in the mid-3% range due to rising prices of energy, food, and durable goods. Additionally, the expected inflation rate is rising. Looking ahead at the economy of our country, it is expected to recover despite downward pressure from high resource prices and a slowdown in the overseas economy, as the impacts of COVID-19 and supply constraints ease. After that, it is believed that growth will continue to exceed the potential growth rate as the positive circulation mechanism from income to expenditure gradually strengthens. The year-on-year consumer price index (excluding fresh food) is expected to increase due to rising prices of energy, food, and durable goods until the end of this year, and then, with the diminishing contribution of these factors, the positive range is expected to narrow by the middle of the next fiscal year. After that, as the macroeconomic supply-demand gap improves and the medium- to long-term expected inflation rate and wage growth rate also rise, it is expected that the positive range will gradually expand again. Looking at risk factors, uncertainty surrounding our economy remains extremely high, particularly regarding overseas economic and price trends, developments in the situation in Ukraine, trends in resource prices, and the impact of domestic and foreign infectious diseases. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to closely monitor the trends in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on our economy and prices. In the meantime, we will closely monitor the impact of COVID-19, strive to support corporate financing and maintain stability in financial markets, and if necessary, take additional monetary easing measures without hesitation. Regarding the policy interest rate, it is assumed that it will remain at the current level of short- and long-term interest rates or below that level. In the quarterly plan for long-term government bond purchases (yield and price bidding method) announced today, the amount will be increased from the previous monthly 7.3 trillion yen to approximately 9 trillion yen.