At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board of the Bank of Japan decided, by a unanimous vote, to set the following guideline for money market operations for the intermeeting period: The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.75 percent. In accordance with the change in the guideline for money market operations, the Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to change the interest rates applied to its measures. The interest rate applied to the complementary deposit facility (the interest rate applied to current account balances held by financial institutions at the Bank, excluding required reserve balances) will be 0.75 percent. The basic loan rate applicable under the complementary lending facility will be 1.0 percent. In view of these developments in economic activity and prices, the Bank judged it appropriate to adjust the degree of monetary accommodation from the perspective of sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target of 2 percent. As for the future conduct of monetary policy, given that real interest rates are at significantly low levels, if the outlook for economic activity and prices presented in the October Outlook Report will be realized, the Bank, in accordance with improvement in economic activity and prices, will continue to raise the policy interest rate and adjust the degree of monetary accommodation. Japan's economy has recovered moderately, although some weakness has been seen in part. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) has been at around 3 percent recently, due to the effects of the rise in food prices, such as rice prices, and other factors. Risks to the outlook include developments in overseas economic activity and prices under the impact of trade and other policies in each jurisdiction, wage- and price-setting behavior of firms, and developments in financial and foreign exchange markets, and it is necessary to pay due attention to the impact of these risks on Japan's economic activity and prices. Takata Hajime opposed the description regarding the outlook for prices, considering that the level of the rate of increase in the CPI, including underlying CPI inflation, already had generally reached the price stability target. Tamura Naoki opposed the description regarding the outlook for underlying CPI inflation, considering that underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target from the middle of the projection period.