Over the past few years, the global economy has been hit by a sequence of global shocks.
The global pandemic was followed by severe supply chain disruptions as economies
reopened, which was then exacerbated by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the resulting
inflation surge. Meanwhile, both monetary and fiscal policy loosened in tandem across
economies in response to the pandemic. Then, in response to the rising inflationary
pressures from 2021 onwards – collectively across regions, market interest rates
increased as policy rates were raised.
Monetary policymakers have since faced different trade-offs in bringing inflation back to
their target. While we might not have quite vanquished inflation everywhere, slowing
inflation dynamics and weakening economic growth prospects suggest that the most likely
direction for interest rates in the near future is down in these economies. At least this is
what financial markets are expecting central banks to do, as implied by the swap curves
shown in Chart 1.
At face value, the apparent similarity between the paths for interest rates in the UK and US
might be a bit of a puzzle. After all, inflation has been higher for longer in the UK,
persistence appears more embedded, and economic growth is weaker. Also, on this scale,
the euro area looks like the odd one out, having never reached the level of policy rates of
the other two.
Let me show you the same data in a different way. Chart 2 shows not the level of policy
rates but their cumulative changes since January 2020 in solid lines, and again expected
changes over the next 3 years as implied by the respective market forward curve in dotted
lines. Quite strikingly, on net, the Bank of England and the ECB roughly tightened rates by
the same amount. At their peak, both UK and euro area policy rates were 4½ percentage
points higher than they were before Covid.
Plotting the data like this reveals that the gap between the UK and the euro area can be
fully explained by differences in initial conditions. Because the ECB was already at or near
its effective lower bound for short-term interest rates, accommodation during the pandemic
was achieved only with asset purchases rather than a combination of purchases and cuts.
But now the US looks like the odd one out. The Fed had started from a higher level of
rates initially, so its hiking cycle ended at less than 4 percentage points above pre-Covid.
Despite that, going forward, financial markets are expecting a much steeper path of cuts
such that the Fed is expected to be terminating its cutting cycle at only 1 percentage point
above the pre-Covid level of interest rates, compared to the 2½ percentage points
currently priced in for the BoE and ECB.
In June 2022, I gave a speech highlighting the importance of global spillovers in the
context of UK monetary policy, through highly interconnected financial markets and trade
networks, to affect macroeconomic outcomes through the channels of domestic interest
rates and the exchange rate. This point still holds today, and in fact, might be even more
pertinent. As a small open economy, the macroeconomic and monetary conditions of the
UK’s largest trading partners matter significantly for the domestic outlook. As the
macroeconomic outlooks diverge, monetary policies diverge.
Sources of policy divergence
Let me unpack these points a bit more. In the following section, I am going to compare and
contrast the experience of the three jurisdictions throughout this period and how their
economies have responded to both common and idiosyncratic shocks.
The most consequential shock of the past few years, outside of Covid itself, was the shock
to international energy prices, and subsequently to inflation, caused by Russia’s invasion
of Ukraine.1 In Chart 3 I plot the time series of international wholesale oil and gas prices.
Especially for gas, the price shock was massive. At their peak, gas prices were seven
times what they had been before the pandemic. While oil prices also increased
significantly, the scale was not comparable to gas.
So, while the source of the shock may have been similar across the world, the percolation
to domestic economies was quite different. In part, the energy mix of different regions
meant different degrees of exposure to this common shock. But also, institutions and
policies to support businesses and consumers differed. In Chart 4, I plot the changes in
gas and electricity prices for consumers across regions. Consumer-facing energy prices in
Europe were multitudes more affected than in the US. And in the UK more specifically,
consumer-facing energy prices were higher, and higher for longer compared to both the
US and euro area. The UK institutional setting underpinned the jumps, which, even as
large as they are, were limited by a cap on energy prices.
Given the strikingly different paths, it is perhaps surprising that relative to 2019, the three
economies have ended up in a similar place – energy price indices have now roughly
converged to a level about 40 percent higher than in 2019. The differing profiles,
nevertheless, have had consequences for incomes, consumption, and aggregate price
dynamics.
The picture for aggregate consumption is sobering: Chart 5 plots nominal and real (that is,
inflation-adjusted) consumption for the UK, US, and the euro area. In the UK, it looks like
the combination of shocks has thrown real consumption perhaps permanently off its
pre-Covid trend. For the data we have seen so far, not only is the level of real consumption
considerably lower, but the profile of the last two years is inconsistent with returning to the
same trend growth rate, let alone the trend itself.
This is not the case for the US or the euro area, despite a similar confluence of shocks for
the latter economy. There are many candidate explanations for this. For instance, a
weaker outlook for supply growth in the UK, a different fiscal stance both in response to
the shocks and expected going forward, different savings behaviors of households in
response to cost of living shocks and higher interest rates, and the evolving
macroeconomic consequences of Brexit.
The gap between the aqua and the orange lines in the chart is the cumulative change in
the price level. 2 For all three economies, this gap currently stands at about 20 percent.
That means that all three economies have experienced similar amounts of inflation over
the past couple of years. But in the UK, more of this price increase has been absorbed in
quantities than in the other two. Also, under the hood, the UK has seen more of an impact
on services prices, to which I will now turn.
Chart 6 plots annual inflation in services and goods prices across the three regions. We
see that while goods price inflation spiked around the world, albeit at different magnitudes
and timings, it has since come down significantly. In the US and euro area, the growth rate
in goods prices seems to have settled around its respective long-term average. But this is
not the case for the UK, where goods prices have in fact outright fallen, in part on the
arithmetic back of how high they rose. This is interesting because it means that the
2 percent headline inflation the UK achieved recently was only because sticky and
elevated services price inflation has been balanced out by significant goods price deflation.
While this is one of the “target-consistent” combinations of goods and services inflation
that I referenced in my OMFIF speech in February, I would argue it is a combination that is
not likely to be sustained. First, goods price deflation is not expected to persist, and indeed
its long-term average is just under 1 percent. And, services price inflation has proven to be
much stickier and in particular has been higher on average than in the other two regions.
Hence there would appear to be more upside risks to overall inflation in the UK context.
What underpins the apparently higher and stickier UK services inflation? Using a set of
time series models, we can decompose services price inflation into labor and non-labor
costs.3 These models show that, across regions, pay growth is the largest remaining driver
of services inflation (see Chart 7). However, the UK is again an international outlier where
pay growth contributes up to 4 percentage points of services inflation. This is compared to
2 percentage points in the US and the euro area.
Is it reasonable to assume that wage growth will remain persistently high? For the UK,
some moderation in wage growth is expected going forward, as inflation expectations,
which are important input to wage negotiations, have made good progress in returning
from their highs in 2022. Measures of short- and long-term household inflation
expectations have fallen considerably and have returned close to their historic averages
(Chart 8). During the time when inflation was so elevated, monetary policymakers were
concerned about, and acted against the risk of inflation expectations de-anchoring or
drifting away from the 2% inflation target, as indeed I addressed in several of my previous
speeches.4 In my view, that risk has largely subsided.
Beyond expectations, what are other issues relevant for real wage developments? In the
medium-term, we need to ask what a sustainable growth rate for wages might be in steady
state. Chart 9 shows two measures of wage growth on top of a swathe of additional
indicators. They point to current wage growth in the region of 4 to 6 percent. If we want to
assume anchored inflation expectations at the 2%-target, then wage growth needs to fall
to between 3-3½ percent, assuming productivity growth is some 1 percent. The Decision
Maker Panel and Bank’s Agent network do point to a deceleration of wage growth to 4
percent or so. But I struggle to see labor productivity growth reviving sufficiently to 1
percent to support this. The 1 percent productivity growth I have cited here is probably an
upper bound since it has not been achieved on any sustained basis since the global
financial crisis. Although the MPC maintains 1 percent as its long-run assumption,
productivity growth is only expected to be about 0.7 percent by 2026 as continued scarring
from Covid and Brexit weigh on the country’s supply side, and, frankly, that is charitable.5
Further, workers may reasonably seek sustained above-equilibrium wage growth to
recover the loss in purchasing power caused by the shocks I’ve described. Between the
structural features of sluggish productivity growth and a realistic role for real wage
catch-up, nominal wage growth would be higher than would otherwise be the case given
the configuration of domestic demand and inflation expectations. This observation, in
conjunction with the high weight for labor costs in services prices, has the potential to
prolong the stickiness in services price inflation, in turn prolonging the return of underlying
inflation to target.
To summarize, I am concerned that structural factors underpin an unsustainable path for
the UK economy with embedded and sticky services inflation to render inflation above-
target for longer and yet at the same time stagnant real activity. Whereas monetary
policies have so far been similar across the three jurisdictions, as I showed in Chart 2, the
macroeconomic differentials that have opened up may yield more divergence in
policymaking, which ought to have important consequences for small open economies.
In the next section, let me elaborate on some research that has informed my views on how
diverging monetary policies can create material spillovers to the macroeconomy.
When different jurisdictions are hit by a sequence of shocks that percolate differently, and
cause fiscal and monetary policies to diverge accordingly, this will be reflected, for
example, in capital flows, exchange rates and yields. Particularly as a small open
economy, spillovers from other countries may play a significant role in affecting these
variables, and therefore macroeconomic outcomes.
Through the lens of econometric models, there are different perspectives you can take on
the domestic and foreign drivers of UK sovereign bond yields. The first is simply by
geography. Chart 10 in the left panel, shows this decomposition for the 10-year UK
government bond yield using the Bank’s ‘Rigobon’ decomposition model
(Bank Overground, 2022). Over this past summer, domestic factors contributed positively
to UK longer-term yields, whereas US developments and spillovers from Japan contributed
to softening.
This analytical approach uses the ‘identification through heteroskedasticity’ method
(Rigobon, 2003) which quantifies the relative importance of international spillovers in the
bond market but does not identify the fundamental driver.
Whether or not UK bond yields have risen or fallen on account of, say, foreign monetary
policy, strong demand, or changes in global risk appetite, is, however, an important
question when assessing the wider macro implications of these spillovers. We know from
the work of Kristin Forbes, one of my predecessors on the MPC, and her team that ‘the
shocks matter’ (Forbes et al., 2018). And this applies not only to exchange rate pass-
through, although I’ll come to that in a minute.
To obtain this more fundamental view of what types of shocks drive yields, I show, on the
right, the decomposition from a new and refined version of the daily Structural VAR model
first presented in my speech on the monetary transmission mechanism (Mann, 2023). We
can now analyze monetary policy spillovers between the UK and its two most important
trading partners and dominant currency blocks, the US and the euro area. This is a unified
framework which also reflects global flight-to-safety behavior and UK-specific risk factors
such as the premium arising in the context of the mini budget episode in September 2022,
or following the Brexit referendum.
In contrast to the statistical nature of identification of the Rigobon decomposition, this
model uses sign and magnitude restrictions derived from economic theory to identify the
underlying drivers of bond yields, equity prices, and exchange rates in the three countries
and currency blocks. Within each jurisdiction, drivers are disentangled by the
co-movement they induce in yields and equity prices. For example, while the monetary
policy shock is restricted to cause yields to rise and equity prices to fall, the macro shock
assumes that yields and equity prices go in the same direction. To differentiate between
jurisdictions, the model uses sign restrictions on bilateral exchange rates as well as
magnitude restrictions such that domestic shocks affect domestic variables more than
foreign variables.
Constructively, we see a similar picture to the Rigobon decomposition emerging, with the
observed fall in UK yields driven mostly by US spillovers. The Japanese component is
being picked up in the risk shocks in the model which can be interpreted as deviations
from interest parity conditions. The structural identification reveals that the positive
contribution of UK factors can be explained by a stronger than expected macro outlook
(salmon-colored bars) rather than a more hawkish MPC pricing (orange bars). The drag
from US factors is being explained by both underlying drivers: While the US macro outlook
has soured (light green), markets have priced a dovish tilt by the Fed exacerbating the fall
in global bond yields (green). These spillovers are a material input to my monetary policy
decision-making landscape.
Let us turn to what all this means for the exchange rate, which for a small open economy
can loom large.
The left-hand panel of Chart 11 shows the decomposition of the bilateral sterling-dollar
exchange rate derived from this model. We see that US factors, in green, have had an
outsized influence on the exchange rate. While UK yields fell by 30 basis points over the
past few months, Sterling appreciated by about 4 percent relative to the US dollar. That is
because US rates fell by even more: The long-term interest rate differential moved in favor
of sterling by some 40 basis points.
To lend credence to the models, where foreign drivers dominate UK rate movements, the
right- hand panel of Chart 11 shows what the respondents in the Bank’s Market
Participants Survey have to say about different drivers of UK rates. In the latest survey
with this particular question, over 60 percent of respondents believed that global factors
were the dominant driver.
These charts show quite strikingly that for a small open economy such as the UK, interest
rate expectations, the exchange rate, and broader financial conditions can exhibit
substantial changes, not on account of domestic conditions but on account of international
spillovers. Because the overall change in financial conditions has important implications for
the domestic macro variables that we care about, international spillovers become an
important consideration for policymakers. And that is especially true when markets are
pricing diverging macroeconomic fortunes and, accordingly, diverging macroeconomic
policies.
To complement the evidence from models and surveys and to illustrate the effects of
international spillovers on macroeconomic variables, let me ask the following question:
What if bond markets are getting ahead of themselves? What if they are pricing too dovish
a Fed, or too poor a growth outlook? Our new spillovers model allows us to address this
question by imposing alternative paths for the drivers underlying the observable variables.
Let’s consider a specific counterfactual scenario: Assume that over the period shown (and
conditional on all the same shocks), the US growth outlook in fact is more robust such that
US long-term yields end 100 basis points higher than they actually have. As shown above
(Charts 10 and 11), this model implies material spillovers from the US to UK and
European bond markets. Therefore, the conjectured more robust US outlook would also
cause a repricing of UK and euro area rates, by around 60 basis points. By the model’s
calculation, this repricing would just about offset the 40 basis point opening up of the
UK-US rate spread since July, noted earlier.
What would this scenario imply for the sterling-dollar exchange rate? Using the spillovers
model, instead of appreciating by 4 percent, sterling would have depreciated by about 3
percent given all the same non-US shocks. A different conjecture for US growth alone
yields a difference of 7 percentage points for the sterling-dollar bilateral exchange rate,
and importantly a switch in sign!
The Bank of England does not target exchange rates, so to assess what this
counterfactual scenario might mean for our policy stance, we need to map these moves
into the variables that we do care about, specifically consumer price inflation. The model
itself does not allow us to make this leap, but to complete the analysis, I’ll bring to bear an
updated version of the Forbes et al. work on exchange rate pass-through multipliers cited
earlier, now estimated over a sample including the Brexit depreciation of sterling relative to
a broad set of other currencies. A key observation of the work is that the origin of the
shock driving the move in the exchange rate matters for the pass-through thereof into
domestic inflation. A more robust US economy, along with the implication of a more robust
global economy should matter for exchange rate pass-through. I estimate that a
counterfactual of strong US growth would be consistent with a depreciation in broad
sterling by between 1.5 and 3 percent.
We estimate that pass-through to import prices is mostly complete such that exchange
rate movements have a roughly one-to-one effect on UK import prices, albeit with wide
confidence bands. Behind the border is where the action happens. What critically matters
for this step in pass-through are domestic demand conditions and the pricing power of
retailers and distributors along the supply chain.
Depending on the nature of the shock – for example, spillovers versus domestic policy –
the same exchange rate movement can have materially different implications for domestic
macro conditions. In the case of our counterfactual where more robust US growth
generates strong global demand growth and this depreciates sterling, I estimate the
eventual rise in the level of consumer prices to be at most half a percent. Not a big deal.
However, if this same depreciation were caused by a dovish MPC instead, with our re-
estimated multipliers, the effect on the level of consumer prices would be up to three times
as large.
To me, this illustrates two very important and related points: First, exchange rates and
broader financial conditions in a small open economy such as the UK will be affected by
the decisions of economic policymakers outside the country. Domestic policymakers need
to take those decisions into account and position themselves accordingly. This is
especially pertinent when international financial markets are febrile and volatile.
Second, the same moves in the exchange rate are not all alike in terms of their
consequences for inflation. How currency moves pass through to consumer prices
depends crucially on the nature of the underlying shock. For example, if domestic demand
conditions are strong, then exchange rates tend to appreciate alongside a rise in
consumer prices and inflation. The sterling appreciation of the summer may not have a
material effect in dampening consumer prices because, as the salmon-colored bars in
Chart 11 show, markets were pricing somewhat stronger than expected demand in the
UK.
The economic divergence in activity and inflation for the UK, US and EA has been
translated by financial markets into an expected divergence in monetary policy strategies.
Managing domestic dynamics as well as the spillovers from decisions by other
policymakers is a challenge for monetary policymakers, particularly to those of small open
economies, including those of the coordinators of this conference, the central banks of
Lithuania and Poland. But, also, of course for the Bank of England.
This brings me to my final section. I will conclude this talk with the thought process leading
me to my vote yesterday. First, I will frame my vote in the context of how the Monetary
Policy Statement, issued yesterday, outlined three ways of thinking about the UK
economy.
Quoting directly from the Monetary Policy Statement:
As set out at the time of the August Monetary Policy Report, the Committee’s
deliberations have been supported by the consideration of a range of cases, to which
different probabilities and different risks can be attached.
In the first case, the unwinding of the global shocks that drove up inflation and the
resulting fall in headline inflation should continue to feed through to weaker pay and
price-setting dynamics. The persistence of inflationary pressures would therefore
dissipate with a less restrictive stance of monetary policy than in other cases.
In the second case, a period of economic slack, in which GDP falls below potential and
the labour market eases further, may be required in order for pay and price-setting
dynamics to normalise fully. Domestic inflationary persistence would then be expected to
fade away, owing to the opening up of slack from a more restrictive stance of monetary
policy relative to the first case.
In the third case, the economy may be subject to structural shifts such as changes in
wage and price-setting following the major supply shocks experienced over recent years.
The degree of restrictiveness of monetary policy may be less than embodied in the
Committee’s latest assessment, meaning that monetary policy would have to remain
tighter for longer.
Against the economic structures described in the cases, how have data and research
informed my votes this year?
My first general point is that understanding macro dynamics requires a disaggregate data
lens, and, particularly given the dynamics of UK consumption, a linking of household real
incomes, labor market conditions, and firm’s pricing power. There has been significant
progress towards sustained 2 percent inflation, but structural factors, as discussed above,
may inhibit getting to target on a sustained basis within the monetary policy horizon
without maintaining a restrictive monetary stance for longer.
My second general point is that the relationship between monetary policy, the
restrictiveness of stance, and macroeconomic outcomes may have changed. It is plausible
that the terminal rate applicable for the monetary policy horizon has risen, implying that
monetary policy has been less restrictive than is presumed by our models. And in any
case the financial environment is highly affected by the policy spillovers that are the main
topic of this speech.
Let me pose and answer a set of questions to elaborate these points, using my specific
votes.
First, the August vote: Why did I vote to hold Bank Rate at 5.25 percent whereas the
MPC’s decision was to cut Bank Rate? At that meeting, I judged that there were upside
risks to demand via market sector output and public sector wage agreements. Inflation
persistence in wages and services prices continued to be reflected in data and model
decompositions (as shown Charts 7 and 9). Remaining on the 5.25 percent Bank Rate
plateau for some time longer and then cutting more aggressively, an ‘activist’ strategy to
monetary policy that I outlined the last time I talked about spillovers (Mann, 2022), would
have helped to reinforce the deceleration of inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the
medium-term.
Second, why was it not good policy for me to vote to hike at this September meeting, to
get back to the August stance, if I thought that was the appropriate level for Bank Rate? In
fact, in August, I did contemplate a cut at that meeting, as the bite from housing costs was
becoming deeper and more widespread but was dissuaded by the balance of factors
already mentioned, as well as a generalized easing in global conditions that affected UK
rates too. If I had voted to hike in the meeting just past only to cut sometime soon hence,
this would be the ‘boogie-dance’ with policy rates that I eschewed in my Lamfalussy
speech in February 2023.
Third, what are the factors that make me comfortable to vote with the majority to hold Bank
Rate at 5 percent at the just concluded September meeting? There is a further
accumulation of evidence of consumer weakness across products and particularly middle-
income deciles, as housing costs are a larger fraction of their consumption basket. In
addition, savings rates have continued to be high, and cannot be explained by
intertemporal substitution alone. Is there a new structural fragility to consumer psyche and
prospects, perhaps a scarring from the set of shocks (Brexit, Covid, war, energy and food
price shocks)?
For inflation evidence, I have focused on the gap between services and goods price
inflation relative to historical experience (as shown in Chart 6), and on firm’s pricing power
for products that are particularly income and price sensitive. Price inflation of these
consumer-discretionary services continued to decelerate through the August reading. The
Bank Agents’ assessment of firms’ pricing power now suggests that consumer-facing firms
are less sanguine about their pricing power especially for products with modestly growing
or price-and-income elastic demand.
Finally, what about financial markets? Market intelligence suggests that a non-negligible
percentage of market participants believe that inflation could stay above target for an
extended period of time. I agree with this judgement.
In my view, the monetary policy stance has been less restrictive during this hiking cycle
than assumed by our models, for two reasons. First, monetary conditions at the start of the
hiking cycle were much looser than as measured by the policy rate (Mann, 2022). Second,
there is a range of evidence to suggest that the neutral rate of interest has increased
relative to the assumption embedded in our forecast models. Consensus expectations of
long gilt yields lie at 3.7 percent, and the Bank’s Market Participants Survey (MaPS) has
pegged the nominal neutral rate at between 3 and 3½ percent for almost two years now.
It is clear from the discussion of the data and research that I put a higher probability on the
structural economic factors embodied in the third case of those outlined in the Monetary
Policy Statement. Structural behaviours in UK labor and product markets appear to have
systematically embedded inflation, such as a rise in the medium-term equilibrium rate of
unemployment, catch-up bias in wages and prices, a fall in potential growth, along with the
rise in the nominal neutral interest rate. Policy therefore needs to remain restrictive for
longer to purge these behaviours.
A risk management assessment implies that it is better, under inflation uncertainty, to
remain restrictive for longer, until right tail risks to the inflation process dissipate, and then
to cut more aggressively. This more activist policy strategy not only achieves the inflation
target sustainably in the medium term but allows to do so at a lower sacrifice ratio.
Therefore, while agreeing with the majority for a hold at the meeting just concluded, I have
a guarded view on initiating a cutting cycle.