I am delighted to be at the Economic Statistics Centre of Excellence (ESCoE) today.
Economic measurement is central to good decision-making. But it’s difficult and I applaud
the key contributions that ESCoE continues to make in this very challenging area.
As I’m in the last eight weeks of my time on the Monetary Policy Committee, I want to talk
about our key concern: UK inflation. I’ll try to look at the past and future of inflation: what’s
done, and what’s to come.
To address these questions, we will need a model. Now, economic models get a bad
press and the Bank recently commissioned a review of economic forecasting from Ben
Bernanke. So why am I using a model? We’ll need to measure lots of concepts and
understand their inter-relationships. Economic models, and the measurement that
underpins them, can help us map this complicated system and make real-time decisions.
In this speech I draw on ongoing research work to implement for the UK the model of
inflation, wages and expectations developed by Olivier Blanchard and Ben Bernanke
(unrelated to the Bernanke review, on which more later) which was also applied by various
central banks to study post-pandemic inflation.1 This is joint work with Josh Martin and
Lennart Brandt that I spoke about in November 2023, and today will update those results
and develop them.
As I reflect on six years on the MPC, and the current situation, I find I have a lot to say! So,
with apologies for a long speech, let me try to be up front about my two main points.
First, on the inflation outlook: there are considerable encouraging signs, most notably
from normalising inflation expectations and a (spoiler: temporary) return of headline
inflation to target in May 2024. However, the wage-price system in the UK has been
subject to a sequence of enormous shocks over recent years. The playing out of those
shocks through the economy, and the continued tight and impaired labour market, means
that inflation will remain above target for quite some time. I would rather hold rates until
there is more certainty that underlying inflationary pressures have subsided sustainably.
Second, on Central Bank credibility: learning from history, the upward burst of inflation
in the 1970s and post-pandemic were caused by broadly the same factors: massive,
unexpected rises in imported commodity prices. But the post-peak trajectories were very
different: inflation was much more persistent in the 1970s, due to unanchored price
expectations and inflexible labour markets, than it has been so far for the recent inflation.
The lesson of this comparison is, in my view, that Central Bank credibility is an incredibly
valuable (intangible) asset. The independence of the Central Bank is important, but assets
need investment to maintain their value. The way the Bank of England invests in credibility
is by doing and communicating good economics.
Along the way, I’ll try to answer some other questions.
1. What caused the pandemic-era inflation? There is little consensus on this
question, and commentators hold diametrically opposed views. Some say the Bank
did “too little” and were “behind the curve” in 2021. Others say the Bank has done
“too much”, and CPI inflation of 2.0% in May 2024 proves it. Still others blame
“greedflation”. Rather than conjecture, I’ll use the Bernanke-Blanchard model to try
to answer this debate.
2. Why was the 1970s so different? Those interested in the more technical aspects
will know that the Bernanke-Blanchard model has been applied successfully in a
range of countries, as summarised in Bernanke and Blanchard (2024). Another test
of the model is to apply it to the past. I’ll show some initial results from applying the
Bernanke-Blanchard model to the UK since the 1970s. These will help understand
changes in the inflation process in the UK over time.
3. How do you make policy in real-time? I will reflect on the challenges of making
policy in real time, in the presence of uncertainty. Recent revisions to the data on
unemployment from the Labour Force Survey provide a case study about the
importance of economic measurement for policymaking. I remain concerned about
an impaired labour market, albeit less so than before following data revisions.
A model of inflation, wages and price expectations
Let me start by summarising the model of inflation, wages and expectations developed in
Bernanke and Blanchard (2023), applied to the UK. This section draws heavily on a
speech in November 2023 and the accompanying paper Haskel, Martin and Brandt
(2023), those familiar with this might care to skip to the next section with updated results.2
The model consists of four equations, which can be conveniently thought about in
sequence, as illustrated in Chart 1.3 Following Chart 1 from left to right, the blocks show
each of the four equations:
1. Wage inflation is determined by past wage inflation, short-run inflation
expectations, labour market tightness (measured by the vacancies-to-
unemployment ratio in practice), productivity growth, and a “catch-up” term. The
dependence on past wage inflation captures some inertia or “stickiness” in wage
setting, while the “catch-up” term relates to real wage resistance and the desire of
workers to recoup unexpected real wage losses.
2. Price inflation is determined by past price inflation, wage inflation, energy price
growth, food price growth, shortages, and productivity. Energy and food prices are
relative to wages (as a proxy for domestic price pressures).
3. Long-run inflation expectations depend on past long-run expectations and actual
price inflation. If the role of actual inflation here is small, then it can be said that
long-run expectations are well-anchored, since they will respond little to fluctuations
in actual inflation.
4. Short-run inflation expectations depend on past short-run expectations, long-run
inflation expectations, and actual price inflation. There is, in effect, a balance
between anchoring to long-run expectations and deviations induced by actual
inflation.
To illustrate the model, imagine an energy price shock which pushes up price inflation –
that is, a permanent rise in the price level of energy, but a one-off rise in inflation. This
affects short-run and long-run price expectations, which in turn affect wage growth in two
ways – first, if workers now have higher inflation expectations they may push for higher
wages; second, workers may try to recoup the real income losses brought on by the
unexpectedly high price inflation. If wages are higher, that pushes up inflation, and so the
cycle continues.
The long-run consequences of a price shock in the model depend on the various
parameters in the equations. Two types of economy can be described using Chart 2,
which is drawn from Bernanke and Blanchard (2023), and based on a stylised version of
the model. The left-hand panel describes the response of inflation to a permanent increase
in the price level (or one-period upward shock to inflation), and the right-hand panel to a
permanent increase in labour market tightness. Imagine that inflation starts at steady-state
(which might be at target) and these shocks move inflation away from steady-state – the
chart plots the response of inflation to the shock, rather than the resultant level of inflation.
Starting with the left-hand panel, the blue economy is one with well-anchored inflation
expectations and little real wage resistance (catch-up). While a price shock initially raises
inflation, the effect wears off quickly, and after a year inflation is no higher than it was
before (i.e. the graph is back to zero, so inflation is essentially back to its steady-state
level). In the language of the model, the coefficients on current inflation in the expectations
equations are low (so expectations are well-anchored), and the coefficient on catch-up in
the wage equation is low (so there is little real wage resistance).
The red economy is one with weakly-anchored inflation expectations and high real wage
resistance. In this economy, a price shock leads to an initial burst of inflation directly, but
persistently higher inflation forever (assuming no other changes in the exogenous
variables). This is because expectations become de-anchored (are permanently higher),
which leads to permanently higher wage growth and so permanently higher price inflation.
In the red economy, the coefficients on current inflation in the expectations equations are
high, and the coefficient on catch-up in the wage equation is high, so the degree of
second-round effects is large. Of course, an inflation-targeting central bank would likely
respond by increasing rates, cooling the economy, and returning inflation to target. Chart 2
suggests this job would be harder in a ‘red’ economy.
Turning to the right-hand panel, a similar result emerges. A permanent increase in labour
market tightness leads to far higher inflation in the red economy (with weakly anchored
expectations and strong real wage resistance) than in the blue economy (with well-
anchored expectations and little real wage resistance). Note that in both cases, inflation
continues to rise forever, since a permanently tighter labour market sets off a wage-price
spiral of higher wage growth, higher inflation, higher expectations, higher wage growth,
and so forth. The extent of this spiral is less severe in the blue economy than the red.
Again, in reality, inflation-targeting central banks would not allow the labour market to be
permanently tighter forever.
As the model shows, what then is crucial is both the extent of real wage resistance,
captured here by the extent of “catch up”, and the anchoring of inflation expectations. We
may perhaps think of the first as related to labour market flexibility and/or the institutional
arrangements within labour markets, most obviously indexation of wages. The second may
be thought of as the institutional arrangements around monetary policy, most obviously the
independence and reputation of the central bank, though independence alone is likely
insufficient.4 We may now apply this model to answer a number of questions.
Applying the model to the present
Chart 3 shows the results of this model applied to the latest data. The chart shows a
decomposition of annual UK CPI inflation5 (black line) into its proximate drivers identified in
the Bernanke-Blanchard model (the various coloured bars). This is an update of the chart I
showed in a speech in November 2023, with the model now estimated on data up to
2024 Q1. The coefficients in the model are little changed.
Following Bernanke and Blanchard (2023), this decomposition is produced by simulating
the model under different information sets and comparing the results.7 The further one
gets from the jumping-off point of 2019 Q4, the less precise the model estimates will be.
Overall, the model fits the data remarkably well, though at quarterly frequency the match is
not quite as good in recent quarters (see quarterly chart in the appendix).
So, what caused UK inflation over this period? Looking at the whole period, the “initial
conditions” (grey) bars represent the model estimate of what inflation would have been
had the economy remained in its pre-pandemic condition and no further shocks had
occurred. Since the UK labour market was tight at the end of 2019 (the V/U ratio was
high), and assuming it would stay that way for 4 years, the model predicts a gradual
increase in wage growth and price inflation, consistent with the right-hand panel of Chart 2.
It is of course impossible to know what would have happened absent the pandemic, but it
seems unlikely that the Bank of England would not have responded to cool the labour
market.8
Turning to the post-2020 drivers of UK inflation, and proceeding chronologically, what
caused the rise in inflation in 2021 as the economy recovered from the pandemic? The
initial increases in inflation in 2021 were driven by energy prices (dark blue bars) and
shortages (yellow bars). As seen in Chart 2, such price shocks would be transitory in an
economy with well-anchored expectations and little real wage resistance (the blue
economy). The UK in the inflation-targeting era is such an economy, as we’ll explore in
more detail later (Charts 5-7). Thus, the model says that the MPC was right to think about
these initial price shocks as transitory.
However, in late-2021 and early-2022, two important things changed. First, the labour
market quickly tightened (V/U increased) and began to put upward pressure on inflation
(red bars). As Chart 2 showed, labour market tightness has persistent inflation effects,
even in an economy with well-anchored expectations. In Chart 2, which is a decomposition
of annual inflation, the red bars only appear positive from 2022 Q2. But in quarterly
inflation (Chart A in the Appendix) labour market tightness started pushing up on inflation
(via wages) in 2021 Q4, immediately after the end of the furlough scheme at the end of
September 2021.9
Second, the price shocks continued and intensified, with larger energy price shocks
following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and an emerging food price shock (light blue bars).
The repeated and large nature of these shocks increased the risk of the de-anchoring of
expectations, and introduced a role for inertia. Recall that in the model, inflation depends
on past inflation – that is, inflation is sticky. High inflation, no matter what the cause, risks
becoming embedded if it persists for too long. In my view, the Bank of England was right to
raise interest rates in late 2021, the first major central bank to do so.10
Finally, what about inflation in 2023? As Chart 3 shows, headline CPI inflation is falling
sharply, driven by falling energy prices (the negative blue bars). In the data for May 2024,
the latest release, annual UK CPI inflation was 2.0%. This is excellent news, but as the
effects of energy prices and base effects fade, the May MPR forecast is for inflation to
rebound and peak at around 2.6% in late-2024 and early-2025, before falling to the 2%
target in early-2026. I view this shape to the inflation forecast as a feature, not a bug.
Crucially, it reflects that underlying inflation is persistent and declining more slowly, with
headline inflation pushed around by volatile energy and base effects.
To summarise, the model suggests the initial burst in inflation in 2021 and the subsequent
rise in 2022 was driven mostly by external shocks (energy and food prices and shortages).
The subsequent fall has been driven by the unwinding of these shocks, but the labour
market has remined tight and policy has rightly leaned against this.
Some other accounts of the pandemic-era inflation
This is quite a different narrative to some others. The “greedflation” theory is that inflation
was caused by firms profiteering and raising their mark-ups. While there may be variation
across firms, products and industries, there is no evidence for this in aggregate in the UK,
at least that I can discern in official data (see Haskel, 2023). The level of corporate profits
has increased, but so too has the level of wages and the level of prices. As a share of total
national income, profits have remained largely the same.
Another theory is that the inflation of summer 2021 could have been detected, and acted
upon sooner, had the Bank based policy on money supply growth which rose sharply in
late 2020 and 2021. The money supply and inflation have a theoretically and empirically
strong relationship at very low frequencies of 20-80 years, with a correlation coefficient of
around 0.8. However, as Box B in the May 2024 Monetary Policy Report makes clear,
this relationship breaks down at higher-frequencies (2-8 years), and money growth has not
proved a reliable short-run indicator of inflation in the UK – indeed, the correlation at
higher-frequencies is weakly negative over the past 80 years, around -0.1 (Chart A, Box B,
May 2024 MPR).
Finally, it has been argued that since inflation expectations are well-anchored, and since
CPI inflation was 2.0% in May 2024, the Bank need not have raised rates at all. My view is
that this confuses cause and effect. I would argue that inflation expectations have stayed
well-anchored precisely because the MPC responded to above-target inflation by raising
interest rates.
Applying the model to the past
So far, I’ve described the pandemic-era inflation, but what of the past? The 1970s was a
period of high energy shocks and enduring inflation. Can the model tell us then how the
UK inflation process has changed over time?
A history of shocks
It is first worth noting that the large price shocks faced in the UK (and euro area) in recent
years are not without historical parallel. Chart 4 shows UK inflation since 1950 and the
associated changes in energy prices. Energy prices here include household energy bills of
electricity and natural gas (and some solid fuels), as well as fuels for transportation (petrol
and diesel), and account for the changing mix over time. As the chart shows, energy price
shocks are common. The 1974 and 1979 shocks show up clearly. The shock in 2022 was
larger at its peak than the shocks of the 1970s, though perhaps more short-lived.
Chart 4 also shows UK inflation. Here the difference between the pandemic era and the
1970s era is notable. Just before the 1974 oil price shock UK inflation was already near
10%. Following that shock it rose to almost 25%, and even though the shock wore away,
inflation only dropped to 7% by 1978. By contrast, the pandemic era shock, which was
much larger, started with inflation at around 1% in 2020. It then rose to 11% but fell rapidly
and in December 2023 had gone down to 4%.
Why were the 1970s so different?
Why, then, does the response of inflation to an energy price shock in the modern economy
differ to that of the 1970s economy?11
To answer this, we have tried to fit the Bernanke-Blanchard model to UK data dating back
to the 1960s. Full details are in a technical appendix. Naturally, working with historical data
presents challenges. Many of the variables that we rely on are not available on an entirely
consistent basis historically, though excellent work by Ryland Thomas and colleagues, as
part of an ESCoE project, has developed the “Millenium of macroeconomic data” which
is a fantastic resource and made our lives much easier. Despite this, there is no reliable
series for long-run inflation expectations earlier than 1985 in the UK, and so we have
modelled a backseries. I should therefore emphasise that this is a work in progress, and
should be interpreted as indicative only.
To understand the possible changes in the model and the economy over time, we estimate
the model using three 30-year windows. The first such window is 1967-1997, broadly the
period before inflation targeting in the UK. Thus, we can contrast the economy as to how it
looked during the era of the 1970s energy shocks, with how it looks in the modern era.
Chart 5 shows the estimated response in the model to an energy price shock, based on
three estimation windows: 1967-1997 (red), 1977-2007 (orange), and 1989-2019 (blue).
These are broadly speaking: a pre-inflation targeting era, a transition era, and the modern
era. The first panel shows the response to inflation in quarter-on-quarter annualised space,
then second panel in annual inflation space, and the third panel in price level space. Recall
that the theoretical model responses in Chart 2 were on quarter-on-quarter inflation, which
correspond to the first panel of Chart 5. The second and third panel of Chart 5 are simply
transformations of the quarter-on-quarter inflation response, to aid in understanding. As in
Chart 2, imagine that inflation was at steady-state (e.g. at target) before the shock, so
Chart 5 shows the response of inflation to the shock (e.g. deviation from steady-state).
The shock is a one-period energy price inflation shock – that is to say, the level of energy
prices goes up unexpectedly in period 0 and stays up. The shock is calibrated to be 1pp
on quarter-on-quarter annualised inflation on impact (in period 1) in all estimation periods
for comparability. Importantly these estimated model responses assume no other shocks
to the exogenous variables. These are, in effect, the impulse response functions of the
model to a single shock in isolation.
The model seems to capture the stylised story for the 1970s pretty well. In all the panels of
Chart 5 the red line (highest line on all charts) shows a persistent response of inflation to a
one-off energy shock. The model estimated on 1967-97 data (red line, at the top) is in
striking contract with the model estimated on 1989-2019 data (blue line, at the bottom).
The model covering the 1970s inflation episode (the red line, estimated on 1967-97 data)
looks very much like the red line from the simulated model in Chart 2. Recall that in
Chart 2, the hypothetical economy with a persistent inflation response to shocks was an
economy with weakly anchored expectations and strong real wage resistance. In this
economy, a price shock (such as an energy price shock) leads to permanently higher
inflation. By contrast, the model estimated on 1989-2019 data (blue line) looks like the
‘blue’ economy from Chart 2 – the energy price shock causes temporary inflation, but no
long-run effect on inflation. The model estimated on 1977-2007 data (orange line), the
intermediate period, follows an intermediate path.
Chart 6 is equivalent to Chart 5 but for a labour market tightness shock – a permanently
higher level of V/U. Again, it is clear that the earlier periods had less well-anchored
expectations – a permanently tighter labour market leads to a wage-price spiral
(ever-increasing inflation) which is much more aggressive in the earlier periods than the
modern era.
Examining the coefficients in the estimated equations gives some insight into these
differences. Chart 7 shows the sum of coefficients on catch-up in the wage equation,
actual inflation in the short-run expectations equation, and actual inflation in the long-run
expectations equation, for the three estimation periods. Catch-up (real wage resistance)
appears to have been important in the 1967-1997 period, but not in the later periods.
Expectations were more responsive to actual inflation in the earlier periods, but much less
so in the modern era. It appears then that the UK economy has transitioned from a ‘red’
economy to a ‘blue’ economy – with stronger anchoring of inflation expectations, and
weaker real wage resistance. That means that price shocks today should have less
long-lasting effects on inflation that they would have had in the past.
This is very good news for policymakers. It suggests that the economic costs of bringing
down inflation, in the form of higher unemployment and lower economic output, might be
less today than they were in the past. Indeed, as found in Blanchard and Galí (2007), real
wage rigidities lead to a trade-off between stabilising inflation and closing the output gap.
The simulations in Charts 5 and 6 suggest that a shock of a given size leads to less
inflation today than in the past. In other words, second-round effects today are smaller
than in the past – in the language of the model, that’s because catch-up effects are smaller
and/or inflation expectations are now more well-anchored.12
However, this statistical model cannot tell us why this is the case – there is nothing causal
here.13 Most likely is that inflation expectations are better anchored because of a credible
inflation targeting regime and an independent central bank (see a little more discussion in
the concluding section). It could also be that policymakers are (or perceived to be) more
willing to act as required to achieve price stability.
Crucially though, the fact that inflation expectations seem well-anchored does not mean
policymakers should do nothing in response to price shocks. Rather, the model identifies,
from past relationships in the data, the reaction of inflation to price shocks conditional on
past reactions of policy. If expectations react little to inflation in the estimation period, that
will largely be because of the reaction (and expected reaction) of monetary policy to
inflation over that period. If monetary policy today were not to react to inflation, in contrast
to the past, then outcomes could be quite different.
It should also be noted that monetary and fiscal policy, both domestic and global, are
effectively in the model, but not easily identifiable. Increases in energy and food prices
could be due to expansions in aggregate demand (both domestically and globally) or
contractions in aggregate supply, or a combination thereof. Aggregate demand will
depend, in turn, on monetary and fiscal policy (both domestically and globally). Similarly,
V/U reflects in part demand for labour, which will depend in part on domestic aggregate
demand, which partly reflects monetary and fiscal policy. The effect of monetary policy
tightening will, to a large extent, be seen through declining V/U. While the primitive drivers
are not identified in the model, their effects are implicitly included.
Finally, I should say that whilst drafting this speech we were made aware of parallel work
in progress by Michael Bordo and colleagues at the Bank, Oliver Bush and Ryland
Thomas.14 They use econometric methods to find upward inflation expectations regime
changes in the 1970s, which have subsequently fallen. Their results are directionally very
similar to those here. They find substantial contributions of such expectations changes to
1970s inflation persistence, and have a fascinating discussion of the institutional reasons
for this, including the role of permissive monetary and fiscal policy. They argue that higher
inflation expectations were brought down after regime shifts, including the introduction of
inflation targeting and the independence of monetary policy making.
Making real-time judgements on inflation: a real-world case
study
I turn now to recent policymaking in the UK.
The Bernanke review rightly points out the difficulties that any forecaster has in making
judgements in real time with noisy data. I want to spend a moment setting out a case study
that illustrates this very point. To be clear, my purpose is not to make excuses. Rather, for
those interested in real-time policy making, I hope it is an interesting real-world example of
some of the issues that have to be confronted.
Under the framework of wages and prices set out in the Bernanke-Blanchard model, the
prospects for inflation depend upon a number of key issues, notably the exogenous
variables such as relative energy and food prices. The other key exogenous variable is
labour market tightness. A tighter labour market increases wage pressure which then
feeds through into prices and expectations in the system. The measure of labour market
tightness used in the Bernanke-Blanchard model is the vacancies-to-unemployment (V/U)
ratio. Labour market tightness is among the measures that the MPC watches closely to
understand inflation persistence, and the Bernanke-Blanchard model says that it is right to
do so (see Chart 2). However, understanding this in real-time is challenging, so I want to
provide a case study of how difficult it is in practice to apply this model in real time (see
Bernanke and Blanchard (2024) for a similar discussion across countries with data to
2023 Q2).
Setting the scene: data available at our February 2024 meeting
My aim in this case study is to show how successive data releases matter. Chart 8 plots
the vacancy rate against the unemployment rate, with the relationship between the two
described by the Beveridge curve, using the data available at the February 2024 MPC
meeting.15 What is this curve? Think of the labour market as matching workers with jobs.
In a recession, vacancies tend to fall, and unemployment rises, tracing out a downward-
sloping line. A labour market with worse matching means more unemployed at given
vacancies, shifting the line outwards.
Starting with the pre-pandemic era, the Beveridge curve lay roughly along the downward
sloping blue line shown in the chart. Then came the pandemic, which led to a sharp fall in
vacancies and rise in measured unemployment, attenuated by the furlough programme.
During this time the labour market was enormously influenced by public policy, and so it’s
difficult to interpret the dynamics around the labour market over this period.
Turning to the post-pandemic data which lie on the top left of the chart, there are two eras.
Between 2022 and 2023 (the top left orange dots) unemployment fell and vacancies rose
sharply. At the peak of this adjustment the vacancy rate was a little above the
unemployment rate, meaning that for every unemployed person there was about one
vacancy. This is in marked contrast to the kinds of ratios we see in more normal times
along the blue line where more than two unemployed people are pursuing each vacancy.
From 2023, however, the red linked-up dots, the labour market began to loosen as
vacancies started to fall. What was happening to unemployment? The data available to us
at the February 2024 MPC meeting was a combination of data from the Labour Force
Survey (LFS) up to 2023 Q2, and thereafter experimental data published by the Office for
National Statistics (ONS).
The combination of the vacancies data (which come from a separate survey) and this
experimental unemployment data traced out the economy from the northwest to the
southeast along the red line. As the chart shows, it looked like the economy was starting to
travel down an outwardly-shifted Beveridge curve, relative to the pre-pandemic Beveridge
curve illustrated by the blue line.17
How does this relate to inflation? If the economy is moving along an outwardly-shifted
Beveridge curve, that is a sign that the matching process between vacancies and
unemployment has become impaired. Thus, any level of unemployment is associated with
higher vacancies, and thus more wage pressure. Ultimately monetary policy would have to
respond to this – the impaired labour market requires the monetary authorities to set a
higher interest rate than they would otherwise have done, in order to return inflation
sustainably to target. This reading of the labour market therefore suggests a more
‘hawkish’ outlook to rate setting, and in conjunction with a number of other signals, was
one of the reasons that I was on the more ‘hawkish’ side in my voting record.
Data available at our March 2024 meeting
By the March 2024 MPC meeting, however, the ONS published revised data.18
Chart 9 shows the new vacancy and unemployment data available to us at the March
2024 MPC meeting (green dots and line), in contrast with that from the February 2024
meeting (red dots and line, which were shown in Chart 8). The new data re-weighted the
population over the past couple of years towards older people, who are more likely to be
economically inactive. It also replaced the experimental Claimant Count-based estimates
with 6 months of genuine survey data. These revisions painted a strikingly different picture.
While the fall in the vacancy rate was about the same as in the previous data, the apparent
rise in unemployment in late 2023 was revealed to be temporary and most likely due to
sample variability. Instead, the unemployment rate fell sharply back to the low levels seen
through most of 2022 and 2023, as shown by the green line shifting towards the
southwest. Looking through the volatility in the green line, the data were now much more
indicative of travelling down the steep portion of the pre-pandemic Beveridge curve, rather
than travelling along an outwardly-shifted curve as the previous data (red dots and lines)
had suggested.
If indeed we are back on the pre-pandemic Beveridge curve, and that remains uncertain
given the ongoing data issues, that suggests that the labour market might not have been
as badly impaired by the pandemic as we had thought. This suggests inflation could be
returned to target at a lower interest rate than would have been the case with an
outwardly-shifted Beveridge curve. Such new information was, along with other
conjunctural data, my motivation for changing my vote at the March meeting to a hold.
That being said, I remain concerned that the labour market remains somewhat impaired,
consistent with an increase in the natural rate of unemployment (U*), albeit not as much of
an increase as I had previously feared. Judging the labour market continues to be critical
and difficult.
All this is to illustrate one corner of the difficulties involved in making policy in real time.
While economic models give a helpful structure to think about the economy, they are only
as good as the data you put in. Interpreting that data in real-time is sometimes difficult.
This example is complementary, I think, to a number of themes raised in the
recently-published Bernanke review of forecasting for monetary policy making and
communication at the Bank of England. One particularly perspicacious point (page 13,
paragraph 1) is that economic forecasting is made even harder since it’s often not even
clear where the economy is starting from. Rightly, data is revised as further information is
gathered: it takes time, for example, for respondents to reply to official questionnaires.
I find it useful that many of the recommendations try to address this issue related to
decision making under radical uncertainty.19 I would like to add that I’m a supporter of the
MPC’s decision to embrace and act upon the twelve Bernanke recommendations. To me,
broadening the information base upon which to take decisions (better data, using a variety
of models, more scenarios) can improve our operational resilience. For example,
scenarios in particular have external and internal benefits. Externally, they help outsiders
to learn more about how the MPC is thinking. Internally, they help the organisation to learn
more about its models (their strengths, assumptions and limitations) and to provide a
mechanism to consider a wide range of information.
Future inflation: persistence and second-round effects
What of the future? As the above section noted, the future path of the driving variables,
notably food, energy, shortages and the V/U ratio are key to the evolution of inflation, both
via their direct effects on wages and prices and their “second-round” or indirect effects. We
can think about these second-round effects as capturing the effect of price shocks on
inflation expectations, as well as via real wage resistance (catch-up), which both push up
wage growth and so increase inflation.
How important are these second-round effects, and how long will they persist? To illustrate
these points, Charts 10 and 11 explore a variant of the Bernanke-Blanchard model that
tries to remove the second-round effects of price shocks. This is an inexact science, so the
results should be treated as indicative only, but I find this a useful experiment.
I will define second-round effects as the impacts on wage growth and inflation from
higher-than-normal inflation expectations and catch-up effects. To capture this, we
simulate the model over the past few years and assume no catch-up effects on wage
growth, and hold short-run and long-run inflation expectations at their long-run averages.
Wage growth still increases in response to labour market tightness, and price inflation still
reacts to energy and food prices and wage growth, but the feedback loop from prices to
wages (and then back to prices etc) is cut off.
Second-round effects in past data
Chart 10 shows three lines. The black line is actual data on wage growth (adjusted for
compositional and furlough effects during the pandemic). The blue line is the full
Bernanke-Blanchard model simulation and shows a reasonable fit to the black line. The
orange line is the model without second-round effects. This suggests that wage growth
would have risen (due to a tight labour market) over the past couple of years, but would
have been substantially lower in the absence of second round effects. The effect of
second-round effects on annual wage growth is estimated to have been about 1pp in late
2022, just under 2pp throughout 2023, and about 1pp in early-2024. The consequences for
inflation follow directly, given the importance of wage growth in inflation and the lagged
relationship – peaking at about 1pp in late 2023 and now beginning to fade.
These are large effects. While Chart 5 showed that the long-run effects of price shocks on
inflation are negligible in the modern economy with anchored inflation expectations, the
dynamic effects can be large, especially in response to large shocks.
Second-round effects in the future
Turning to the future, how long might these second-round effects last? We could try to
answer this again with the Bernanke-Blanchard model, by projecting wage growth and
inflation with and without second-round effects. To do this, we immediately need to decide
on some conditioning paths for the exogenous variables. For energy prices we follow the
forecast in May 2024 Monetary Policy Report (MPR), which extends until 2027. For food
prices, the May MPR gives a 6-month forecast, and thereafter I assume food price inflation
reverts to pre-pandemic averages. We assume shortages return immediately to their pre-
pandemic average, and productivity growth averages 0.5% per year in line with the recent
(slow) record.
For V/U, we take the May 2024 MPR forecast for unemployment and combine that with the
assumption that the economy will move along the pre-pandemic Beveridge curve. This
gives a forecast for vacancies that corresponds with that for unemployment, and
combining gives a trajectory for V/U.
How should we simulate the forecast without second-round effects? As Chart 10 showed,
without second-round effects to date, the model predicts that wage growth (and inflation)
would be lower than they actually are. In fact, the outturn data on wage growth (and
inflation) were also higher than the simulated ‘full’ model (including second-round effects)
in 2024 Q1. Should we simulate the model afresh, starting from the recent outturn data?
Or persist with the model estimates from Chart 10? The answer is not immediately
obvious, but to make some progress we will proceed as follows.
Chart 11 shows some of the same data as in Chart 10, now overlaid with some additional
lines. First, Chart 11 includes the wage growth ‘swathe’ (grey) from Chart 3.8 of the May
2024 MPR, which is based on three wage growth models maintained by Bank of England
staff. It also includes the MPC’s wage growth forecast consistent with the May 2024 MPR
(black dashed line).
The other dashed lines are two simulations of the Bernanke-Blanchard model. The dashed
blue line is the ‘full’ Bernanke-Blanchard model simulation (including second-round
effects), starting from the outturn data up to 2024 Q1. This starts above the solid blue line,
since the recent wage growth outturn data have been above the prior simulation of the
model.
The dashed orange line is the Bernanke-Blanchard model simulation excluding
second-round effects. This starts slightly above the orange solid line, consistent with the
‘full’ model projections, to account for the under-estimation of outturn wage growth in the
‘full’ model and thus be more comparable with those projections with second-round effects
(the blue dashed lines).
Three points emerge. First, the Bernanke-Blanchard model simulation excluding second-
round effects (orange lines) is broadly within the grey swathe, both over the past and into
the future. This would suggest that those suite of models (or at least one of them) does not
fully account for second-round effects.
Second, the gap between the model forecasts with and without second-round effects
persists during 2024, but shrinks and the lines quickly converge (compare dashed orange
and dashed blue lines). This convergence, around the end of 2024, suggests that the
additional wage growth due to the second-round effects of past unexpected price shocks
will have disappeared by the end of 2024. Does that mean that price inflation will return to
target at that point? No. Price inflation endures even with no second-round effects. This is
for two reasons: first, wages take time to pass through into prices, and second, inflation
itself is sticky and so high past inflation has lasting effects. The May 2024 MPR forecast
has inflation returning to the 2% target in early 2026, and the Bernanke-Blanchard model
(conditioned on similar assumptions) exhibits similar dynamics.
Third, the MPC forecast for wage growth is above all of those from the Bernanke-
Blanchard model in the near-term. One reason for this is the increase in the National
Minimum Wage in April 2024. Naturally the Bernanke-Blanchard model cannot anticipate
this, but accounting for it would move the dashed blue line substantially closer to the
MPC’s forecast (black dashed line). A second reason is that the MPC have taken steers
from a range of information not available to the model, such as information from the Bank
of England’s regional agents on expected pay settlements this year, and survey data
from the Decision Maker Panel and other sources. They point to pay settlements of
around 5% this year, above the forecast of the Bernanke-Blanchard model. Through
judgement, the MPC is able to account for this information in a way that an economic
model cannot easily do.
There are many things that this simulation cannot account for. Naturally the forecast is
sensitive to the assumed path for V/U. The degree of second-round effects will also
depend on any future price shocks. In this model, unexpectedly low inflation can also lead
to negative second-round effects, i.e. downward pressure on wage growth. Nominal wage
rigidity might limit the extent to which downward price shocks lead to lower wage growth.
The effects of all of this for inflation are broadly consistent with the MPC’s forecast in the
May 2024 MPR, namely that there are considerable second-round effects at play currently,
and that they will fade over the coming years.
In summary, the model suggests that in the current conjuncture, second-round effects
matter a good deal.
Conclusion
I’ve tried in this speech to answer some questions using an updated version of the
Bernanke-Blanchard model applied to the UK. Referring back to questions in the
introduction, I would summarise the answers as follows.
Let me start with the past.
First, was the Bank “behind the curve” when inflation started? No. Our updated results
confirm the conclusion I set out in November 2023. The initial burst of inflation was due to
the economy being hit by a succession of external shocks, unforeseen by even the most
informed market participants. The inflationary impulse from the labour market was minimal
until 2021 Q4, at which point, the Bank raised rates, the first major central bank to do so.
And we did so in the face of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus which, at the time,
looked like it might require the entire nation to be locked down again and revaccinated.
These are the actions of an institution ahead of the curve, not behind it.
Second, why was inflation so much more persistent in the 1970s than it appears to be
today? Our new evidence in this speech suggests that the 1970s labour market was much
less flexible (in the form of higher real wage resistance), and expectations were less
well-anchored.
Third, what of the challenges of making policy in real-time? I have tried to show an
example of how the flow of new data will rightly have policymakers changing their minds
and how vital economic measurement is to policymaking.
I turn to the future.
What is the near-term inflation outlook? Assuming no further shocks, the model suggests
that it depends on the interaction of a tight labour market and second-round effects as
previous inflation works its way through the wage-price system. That previous inflation is
sufficient to impart momentum to current inflation, although not as much as in the 1970s. I
hope this helps explain why the MPC is looking closely at labour market conditions and
underlying inflationary indicators such as services inflation. The labour market continues to
be tight, and I worry it is still impaired. I would rather hold rates until there is more certainty
that underlying inflationary pressures have subsided sustainably.
Finally, the more long-term overarching question is the importance of central bank
credibility. A credible institution is something that the public trusts: in the case of a Central
Bank, to fulfil its remit of price stability. Trust is an (intangible) asset and so, like any asset,
depreciates and requires investment to be maintained. So how can a central bank make
that investment, or put another way, earn that trust?
Organisational scientists cast trust in an “ABI” framework – the trustor needs to
demonstrate to the trustee: ability, benevolence, and integrity.21
Applying this to the Bank of England, to the extent that integrity means sticking to
promises, the economics literature concentrates heavily on independence from political
interference as a key determinant (on the theory that an independent institution is more
likely to stick to its promise, in this case to keep inflation down, because it is free from
political interference). But this ABI framework suggests other elements matter too.
What of ability? As the Bernanke review sets out, the Bank is not short of ability: it has top
PhDs and experienced staff. But the perception of ability is, I suspect, heavily influenced
by forecast errors, not least since the Bank sets such great store by the central forecast.
Perhaps this is an area where the scenarios that the Bernanke review suggests will help:
they will allow outsiders to learn more about our view of the economy, and allow us to
learn more about how our models work under different circumstances.
Turning to benevolence, I suspect many think that benevolence is split between “hawks”
(who don’t have much of it) and “doves” (who do). This is a category error. All MPC
members are committed to the remit, but view the appropriate policy stance differently. If
you will forgive a personal note, during my time on the committee I have been variously
described as being both amongst the most dovish and the most hawkish. This shows how
uninformative those labels are. As Keynes is reputed to have said: “When the facts
change, I change my mind – what do you do, sir?”22 What this highlights, I think, is the
repeated need for the committee, as it does, to keep earning trust by being clear about
what facts are changing and the models by which it interprets them.
In conclusion, a central bank is part of a very delicate social bargain: trusted with great
powers, but having to earn that trust. Anyone working at the Bank of England knows what
a privilege it is to be given that trust. Equally, anyone leaving the Bank knows it is bigger
than any single individual. With good data, models and economics my successors can
take and explain hard decisions. There will be times when this doesn’t earn the public’s
affection, but it will end up earning their trust.
Thank you.