Good morning.
It is a great pleasure to discuss recent monetary policy decisions with you this morning.
Thanks to our hosts here at Barclays for organising the event.
The May 2025 MPC decision
At its meeting on 8 May, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) decided to reduce Bank
Rate by 25bp to 4¼%. This represents a further step in the Committee’s “gradual and
careful” withdrawal of monetary policy restriction, as the substantial pandemic- and
invasion-induced inflationary shocks faced in recent years unwind.
The Committee’s decision was enabled by evidence of continued progress in disinflation
towards a lasting and sustainable achievement of the 2% inflation target.
To illustrate, over the past few months: underlying services price inflation has eased;
forward-looking indicators of pay growth have moderated; and – despite continuing
challenges with the quality of the data – we are seeing more signs that slack is emerging
in the UK labour market.
Layered on top of these developments is the impact of recent announcements about the
global trading system (and the uncertainties surrounding them) on the UK economy. On
balance, the Committee judged that these announcements would have a modest
disinflationary effect on the outlook for UK price developments at the policy-relevant
horizon, albeit more marginal than appears to have been the prior expectation of others.
The path of headline CPI inflation promises to be bumpy over the next few months. Owing
in large part to the gyrations of European wholesale natural gas prices in the past (and
their subsequent impact on UK energy utility bills in the CPI basket), the MPC expects
inflation to rise to around 3½% through the summer. But behind this volatility, the
underlying disinflation continues.
This narrative and the evidence supporting it were marshalled in the MPC’s May Monetary
Policy Report (MPR), which presents the data, analysis, forecasts and scenarios
discussed by the Committee in coming to its Bank Rate decision. Committee members
(including myself) have been active over the past couple of weeks in describing these data
and analyses, so I will not repeat that again this morning.

Of course, the world does not stand still. Since the MPC’s policy decision, we have seen
significant further developments. There has been more news on the trade side, not least
the US-UK trade agreement announced in Washington DC shortly after the publication of
the Bank Rate decision. And that news together with the MPC’s policy announcement
have led to substantial asset price movements, including a close-to-complete reversal of
the post-‘Liberation Day’ decline in the price of risk assets and market expectations of
Bank Rate to year-end.
The implications of such news for the inflation outlook will need to be assessed by the
MPC at its upcoming meetings. And the Committee will need to remain alert to the
possibility that changes in circumstances demand changes in the monetary policy stance.
As the MPC emphasised in its most recent statement: “monetary policy is not [and cannot
be] on a pre-set path”. The Committee’s assessment, decision and communication on 8
May were all conditional on the information it had at that point: necessarily and inevitably
so.
But my objective this morning is not to describe the rationale for the Committee’s Bank
Rate cut. That has already been done, by the Governor and others.
Rather I seek to stake out my own position. As I am sure most of you know, I dissented
from the MPC majority in May in favour of leaving Bank Rate unchanged at 4½%. And that
places me under an obligation to explain my dissent.
Inverting the title of Ben Bernanke’s celebrated memoir of his experiences during the
global financial crisis, my aim in today’s remarks is to justify my ‘courage not to act’ with
Bank Rate at the May MPC.
That argument has three elements: first, I will clarify my May dissenting vote (perhaps
revealing that it was not so ‘courageous’ after all); second, I will explain the argumentation
behind that vote (drawing on analytical material that was influential in my own thinking);
and third, I will explore how the latest policy round illustrates the potential of scenario
analysis (thereby proving a link back to Prof. Bernanke, given his recommendation of this
approach in his recent review of the Bank of England’s forecasting process).
How courageous? – A ‘skip’ not a ‘halt’
Crucially, I would characterise my May vote as favouring a ‘skip’ within a continuing
withdrawal of monetary policy restriction, rather than a halt to the process of withdrawal.
I still view the underlying disinflation process (towards lasting achievement of the 2%
inflation target) as intact. It is the quarterly pace of 25bp Bank Rate cuts delivered since
last summer that I question on this occasion – in line with my revealed preference for a
“cautious and gradual” withdrawal of restriction over the past year.

As I have argued consistently since last spring, I am concerned about the potential
inflationary impact of structural changes in price and wage setting behaviour, following the
experience of prolonged, well above-target inflation in recent years. Greater ‘real income
resistance’ among entrepreneurs and wage earners may have sustained momentum in
nominal dynamics even as resource pressures and the labour market have eased.
The resulting increased intrinsic inflation persistence2 has not only slowed the process of
disinflation relative to inflation target era norms, it has also changed the character of the
disinflation itself.
The former observation would imply a need for a slower-than-average withdrawal of
monetary policy restriction, simply to match the slower-than-average disinflation. But the
latter observation brings out that structural changes in the nature of the disinflation process
may require a more prolonged maintenance of policy restriction to ‘squeeze out’ the
inflation arising from intrinsic persistence.
Or to put it another way, while progress with disinflation is a signal that monetary policy
restriction can be removed over time, progress with disinflation is also a signal that
monetary policy restriction is working – and as long as disinflation back to target is not
complete, maintenance of some restriction will still be required. On my reading, that is a
view that is held across a broad swathe of MPC members.
The disinflation process should not be seen simply as reflecting the dissipation of external
shocks. It is also the result of the monetary policy response to those shocks.
For sure we should be forward-looking and internalise the lags in monetary policy
transmission to the inflation rate in making our policy choices. But this simply further
highlights the need to manage the (potentially complex) inter-related dynamics between
the parallel processes of disinflation and withdrawal of policy restriction.
And in my view, that withdrawal of policy restriction has been running a little too fast of
late, given the progress achieved thus far with returning inflation to target on a lasting
basis.
As reflected in the voting record, my sense is that Bank Rate plateaued at slightly too low
a level in 2023, and the MPC started cutting Bank Rate slightly too early in 2024. To
compensate, my starting point is that the pace of Bank Rate reduction should be
“cautious”, running slower than the 25bp per quarter we have implemented since last
August.
That requires a ‘skip’ in that quarterly pattern at some point. And I decided that the May
meeting was an appropriate moment for that ‘skip’.

Why courageous? – ‘Resistance’ in theory and practice
Evidence favouring a ‘skip’ to slow the pace of withdrawal of monetary policy restriction
relative to what the MPC has implemented since last August comes from the signal
extracted from many noisy nominal indicators. This signal has remained elevated even in
an environment of stubbornly weak real activity. While disinflation towards the 2% inflation
target continues, disinflationary momentum has shown signs of stuttering.
To illustrate: the pace of decline in the underlying pay growth measure constructed by
Bank staff and presented in the MPR has slowed. Core services inflation has remained
obstinately robust. Nominal indicators from business surveys show renewed strength –
both input and output price measures in the PMI survey, as well as goods inflation
expectations in the Bank’s own Decision Maker Panel (DMP) survey. And household
inflation expectations have picked up, rising to levels above their long-term averages
consistent with the achievement of the inflation target. All this comes against a background
of (almost) four years of above target CPI inflation, with a peak above 11%. And we expect
April headline CPI inflation to show an increase as the prospective bumpiness in that time
series I already mentioned becomes apparent.
In short, I remain concerned about upside risks to the achievement of the inflation target.
My concerns are captured in part by the ‘upside’ inflation scenario presented in Box A of
the May MPR. This scenario associates a stronger-than-embodied-in-the-baseline-
forecast outlook for CPI inflation with a combination of: (a) second-round effects stemming
from the energy price induced ‘blip’ of headline inflation to 3½% over the summer; and (b)
weaker labour productivity growth, which weighs on potential aggregate supply and
increases unit labour costs.
I have sympathy with both elements of the scenario. Bank research has demonstrated the
potential for non-linear ‘threshold effects’ to kick into the price formation process once
inflation reaches 3½ - 4%.3 This can be seen as a statistical warning of another bout of
potential second-round effects, especially as households may be more attentive to inflation
given recent experience and more sensitive to developments in especially salient items of
the CPI basket (such as food and utility bills) that are driving the anticipated rise in
inflation. And stagnant labour productivity is consistent with the reservations I have
expressed for some time about the dynamism of the UK supply-side.
But my concerns go beyond these risks. The scenarios published in the MPR are useful
not just because they help to illustrate some of my concerns, but also because they serve
to delineate where I have additional concerns that run beyond what is presented in the
MPR.
First, a brief empirical motivation.

As shown in Chart 1 – which will be familiar to many of you from MPR press conferences
over the past few quarters – since mid-2023 pay growth has exceeded the rates that would
have been expected on the basis of developments in its usual determinants, such as
labour market slack, inflation expectations and productivity. In parallel, the MPC’s wage
growth forecasts – which, though judgemental, draw on models of these standard
relationships estimated on data from the generally benign inflation targeting era – have
systematically under-predicted the strength of pay growth, as shown in Chart 2.

To explore the monetary policy implications of these empirical developments, my
collaborators at the Bank have estimated a small empirical model of the UK economy.
Building on the work of my former colleagues at the ECB and their co-authors,4 this model
explicitly incorporates unemployment and captures fluctuations in the natural rate of
unemployment (see Annex).
In this model, the natural rate of unemployment does not vary according to the degree of
skills mismatch or the degree of churn in the labour market (as is the case in other models
used at the Bank). Rather, the natural rate of unemployment is a function of the wage
bargaining power of workers, which captures how much those workers seek to resist any
fall in their real take-home incomes as the economy is subject to real shocks.

Not only does this model get closer to embracing the underlying inflation-propagating
mechanism that I am most concerned about, but it does so in an internally consistent way.
The approach permits exploration of not just the implications for the inflation outlook of
changes in price and wage setting behaviour, but also how those changes in behaviour
influence the transmission mechanism and thus the design of the appropriate monetary
policy response.
Charts 3 and 4 show how inflation and Bank Rate respond to a ‘cost-push shock’ in this
model as the degree of ‘real income resistance’ in the wage bargaining process (ψ)
strengthens.6 As intuition would suggest, greater resistance to declines in real income
implies a stronger inflation reaction to the cost-push shock (i.e. amplification of the inflation
impact) and requires a stronger monetary policy response in Bank Rate.

What’s more, because the mechanism producing this stronger response is a reflection of
changes in the structure of the economy rather than the specific economic shock – in other
words, it is a consequence of greater intrinsic persistence in inflation, rather than extrinsic
persistence – then further inflationary shocks would produce similar upside deviations from
whatever disinflationary path the economy was on.
Charts 3 and 4 have been produced under the assumption that monetary policy follows a
common rule independent of the degree of real income persistence. But the policy
response itself should reflect how changes in the structure economy influence the
propagation of inflation and the transmission mechanism of monetary policy. What was the
optimal monetary policy response under one view of the transmission mechanism will
become sub-optimal should that view of the transmission mechanism change.

To illustrate this, we have constructed optimised ‘Taylor rules’ linking the level of Bank
Rate to deviations of inflation from target and the output gap. Because we have an
internally consistent model of the economy, we can use a measure of welfare to construct
these optimised rules that itself reflects how the economy and transmission mechanism
has been changed by the changes in ‘real income resistance’.
While adopting a framework with novel structural features challenges the consistency of
this exercise with the baseline forecasts and scenarios shown in the May MPR, it has the
benefit of maintaining in fact, deepening) the internal consistency within this novel
framework.
Chart 5 shows how the parameter governing the optimised responsiveness of Bank Rate
to the deviation of inflation from target in this set-up varies with the degree of ‘real income
resistance’ shown by wage bargainers. Again in line with intuition, the greater the degree
of intrinsic inflation persistence coming from higher ‘real income resistance’, the more
strongly monetary policy needs to respond to above target inflation (other things equal).
Taken together, these results imply that, if intrinsic inflation persistence were to rise as a
result of wage bargainers exhibiting lastingly stronger real wage resistance, then:
• Inflation would be higher than otherwise following a cost-push shock;
• Since the drivers of that higher inflation are a change in the structure of the
economy and the behaviour of firms and households within it, this greater sensitivity
of inflation to a cost-push shock is not a ‘one-off’ but a lasting feature of the
economy;
• As a result, were there to be a series of inflationary cost-push shocks, the upside
deviations of inflation from target would prove more persistent than historical
estimates of the inflation response to those shocks would imply;
• And the optimised response of monetary policy given greater intrinsic inflation
persistence requires a stronger response of Bank Rate to upside deviations of
inflation from target, in turn implying that Bank Rate should stay ‘higher-for-longer’
even as the disinflation process proceeds.
This set of implications is consistent with our recent experience of under-estimating the
persistence of above-target inflation following the pandemic- and invasion-induced
inflationary cost-push shocks. It also offers support for a slower pace of withdrawal of
monetary policy restriction during the subsequent disinflation phase.
In other words, it is one persuasive argument behind my decision to support a May ‘skip’ in
the ongoing process of Bank Rate reduction.
Whither courageous? – Exploring ‘robustness’
Of course, this is all conjecture. The model-based results follow from different calibrations
of ‘real income persistence’, not estimates based in the latest data. While the results of the
exercises are consistent with the surprising strength of UK pay growth since 2023, we do
not yet have sufficient data to assess whether there has indeed been a structural break in
intrinsic inflation persistence in recent years.
Econometricians enjoy the luxury of being able to wait for longer time series to become
available to explore that possibility. Policy makers must take decisions in real time.
That is one reason why scenarios based on calibrations can be valuable in monetary
policy preparation – they allow various “what if” exercises to be conducted and published,
which expose how policy makers maybe thinking about innovations in the data and the
structure of the economy, and their implications for Bank Rate decisions.
One illustration of how such scenarios can support monetary policy making comes from an
exercise exploring the robustness of policy decisions in the face of uncertainty about
where the true extent of ‘real income resistance’ among wage bargainers lies.9 The
relatively simple yet empirically relevant model framework developed above is a helpful
testbed.
Chart 6 illustrates the following exercise. We assume that the parameter capturing intrinsic
inflation persistence (ψ) has shifted to a higher value.10 We then assess how Taylor rules
optimised under different assumptions for the real income resistance parameter made by
the central bank (denoted ψ’)11 perform, both in model-consistent welfare terms and in
terms of inflation volatility.
By construction, the welfare loss in this exercise is minimised for the true value of the
intrinsic inflation persistence parameter (i.e. when ψ’ = ψ).
Inflation volatility (as shown by the orange bars in Chart 6) declines as the sensitivity of
Bank Rate to inflation deviations from target rises (with the central banks assuming real
income resistance is stronger than is actually the case, ψ’ > ψ). But this comes at a cost in
terms of overall welfare (captured in the orange line) as the distortions to activity and
employment rise. This simple model set-up therefore captures a central feature of the
Bank’s flexible inflation targeting framework: it warns against adopting what is often called
an “inflation nutter” approach that focuses solely on minimising inflation volatility even in
the face of trade-off inducing shocks.

The key feature of Chart 6 is the asymmetry in welfare losses around this specific true
value of inflation persistence. For the calibration chosen, a policy maker creates smaller
losses if she errs on the side of assuming a higher-than-true value of intrinsic inflation
persistence than is she errs by a similar margin on the side of assuming a lower-than-true
value of that parameter.
If this were to be a general result across all plausible value of intrinsic inflation persistence,
it would have immediate policy-relevant conclusions: other things equal, it is preferable to
worry about intrinsic inflation rather than neglect it.
We explore this conjecture in Chart 7. This matrix illustrates how welfare losses vary for
different true parameter values as policy makers assume different degrees of intrinsic
inflation persistence in constructing their optimised Taylor rules.

It is immediately apparent that the result drawn from Chart 6 is not generalisable across all
the parameter values deemed plausible. To take the extremes shown here: assuming that
intrinsic inflation persistence in low when it is in fact high results in a lower welfare loss
than assuming intrinsic inflation is high when it is in fact low.
Nonetheless, Chart 7 is a helpful summary of how uncertainties surrounding the degree of
real income resistance (and thus intrinsic inflation persistence) may influence inflation and
welfare outcomes. This summary can both help to organise the internal discussion of
policy choices within the MPC and present key elements of the rationale for both individual
decisions and the final collective outcome of an MPC meeting.
Consideration of a satellite model of real income resistance is useful not just because it
delineates where I have additional concerns that run beyond what is presented in the
MPR. It is also useful because it reveals that no model (or set of models) is a complete
substitute for the importance of my own subjective judgement in forming a view on the
appropriate path for Bank Rate. The exercise in Chart 7 forces Committee members to
disagree within a common framework and explore the welfare consequences of incorrect
beliefs within a model in which macroeconomic mechanisms map directly to optimal policy
paths.
Concluding remarks
Progress with underlying disinflation towards lasting and sustainable achievement of the
2% inflation target in the UK continues. This justifies some further withdrawal of monetary
policy restriction by the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee. In that light, the
Committee lowered Bank Rate by 25bp to 4¼% at its May meeting.
My dissent from that decision does not reflect a fundamental difference with the
Committee majority regarding the inflation and policy outlook.
On the contrary, I also believe that the underlying disinflation process remains intact and –
conditional, as always, on the information and analysis available today – that the
prospective path of Bank Rate from here is downward.
My dissenting vote stems from a concern that the pace of withdrawal of monetary policy
restriction since last summer – quarterly cuts of 25bp – is too rapid given the balance of
risks to price stability we face. This is in line with my preference for “cautious and gradual”
cuts in Bank Rate expressed over the past twelve months.
I would therefore characterise my dissenting vote as favouring a ‘skip’ in the quarterly
pattern of Bank Rate cuts intended to slow the pace at which monetary restriction is
withdrawn. It should not be seen as favouring a halt to (still less a reversal of) that
withdrawal of restriction.

Why this preference for caution?
I remain concerned that structural changes in the price and wage setting behaviour have
increased the intrinsic persistence of the UK inflation process. That not only makes
inflation ‘higher-for-longer’ in the aftermath of pandemic- and invasion-induced inflationary
shocks than would otherwise have been the case. It also influences the appropriate Bank
Rate response in pursuit of lasting achievement of the inflation target.
In these remarks, I have flagged those indicators that give me cause for concern. I have
emphasised that these indicators need to be seen in the round and interpreted as part of a
broader economic narrative. Monetary policy decisions should be ‘outlook dependent’ not
narrowly ‘data (outturn) dependent’.
But I also recognise the difficulty with concrete, real-time identification of the behavioural
changes in price and wage setting that are cause for concern. This is where scenario
analysis comes in.
In my remarks this morning, I have sought to give some insight into how economic
scenarios can be used to conduct “what if” exercises that influence my approach to
monetary policy decisions. These exercises need empirical grounding and internal
consistency. They can be conducted in parallel with the baseline forecasts and scenarios
published in the MPC Monetary Policy Report.
While these scenarios remain work-in-progress from an institutional point-of-view for both
the Bank of England and its MPC, I hope my remarks have given some insight into how
they influence my own thinking as I participate in the current monetary policy debate.
They illustrate a number of more general points: the MPC and its members routinely
consider a wide range of inputs and explore economic mechanisms from different
perspectives; by implication, all analysis and judgments cannot be funnelled through a
single framework like the forecast; and as a result, a single forecast will not as a general
rule be a sufficient statistic for communicating the MPC's policy stance.
And with that, I am happy to take your questions.