today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to 4 to 4¼ percent and to continue reducing the size of our balance sheet. With downside risks to employment having increased, the balance of risks has shifted. Accordingly, we judged it appropriate at this meeting to take another step toward a more neutral policy stance. We will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.6 percent at the end of this year, 3.4 percent at the end of 2026, and 3.1 percent at the end of 2027. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. We can’t just assume that, though, right? We have to—our job is literally to make sure that that is what happens. So what will we do? We’ll do what we need to do. So it’s an interesting labor market. so that we become more neutral, which will be—which, presumably, will be better for the labor market. the overall job-finding rate is very, very low. However, the layoff rate is also very low. So you’ve got a low—a low-firing, low-hiring environment. And the concern is that if you start to see layoffs, the people who are laid off won’t—there won’t be a lot of hiring going on. But now the hiring rate is very, very low. So that’s been a growing concern over the last few months, and it’s one of the reasons why we think it’s appropriate that we begin to shift our policy focus toward a more balanced one. So I think we are—we’re in a meeting-by-meeting situation, and we’re going to be looking at the data. The actual decisions we make are going to be based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks at the time the decisions are actually made. So rather than looking at this as certainty, I would encourage people, as always, to look at the SEP as—through the lens of probability. And so it’s quite a difficult situation for policymakers. And it’s not at all surprising to me that you have a range of views. But you’re right that it is—it’s a wide dispersion of views, and I think that’s understandable and natural in the current situation. Look, it’s deeply in our culture to do—to do our work based on the incoming data and never consider anything else. So, you know, you’ll know it by the way we talk about what we’re doing, by the speeches that people give, by the decisions that we make. So I think you would be able to tell. So, on the QCEW, the revision that we saw was almost exactly what we expected. And the reason for that is for the last bunch of quarters, there’s been a—almost a predictable overcount. But, you know, the data we get is still well good enough for us to do our work. And it’s no great secret. So we put all those together, and we see that the labor market is softening, and we don’t need it to soften any more, don’t want it to. So I think our policy path really does matter. I think it’s important that we use our tools to support the labor market when we do see signs like that. I wouldn’t say that. I mean, you’re right. So, I mean, I think the economy is—you know, it’s moving along. So we will have had zero job growth for more than a decade when we’re finished with that, and I think we’ll probably do more than that. So there’s great uncertainty around that. I think my view—which is also a bit of a guess, but widely shared I think—is that you are seeing some effects, but it’s not the main thing driving it. What seems to be happening is that, you know, the tariffs are not—mostly not being paid by exporters, mostly being paid by, really, the companies that sit between the exporter and the consumer. So if you buy something and you sell it through retail or you use it to make a product, you’re probably taking a lot of those costs on and not able to pass it fully along to the consumer yet. To the consumer, the pass-through has been pretty small. But the evidence is very clear that there’s some pass-through. So there’s 12 voters—19 participants, of whom 12 vote, as you know, on a rotating basis. So I think that is the way the institution—that’s in the DNA of the institution. Our response is we’re going to do everything we can to use our tools to achieve the goals that Congress has given us. So I think that was—I think that’s broadly accepted. I think that the new data that we’ve had—and it’s not just payrolls, it’s other things as well—suggests that there really is meaningful downside risk. There are, as I mentioned earlier, there are no risk-free paths now. We’ve seen much more challenging economic times. The economy is growing at 1½ percent. You know, housing is an interest-sensitive activity, so it’s at the very center of monetary policy. When the pandemic hit and we cut rates to zero, the housing companies were incredibly grateful. And that has been happening. So we don’t—we haven’t thought about that for a very long time as a third mandate that requires independent action. We’re aware of that. You know, lower rates should support economic activity. We monitor the whole picture, really looking for structural vulnerabilities, and I would say those are not elevated right now. We have risks that are both affecting the labor market and inflation. I don’t see market participants—I don’t see that that’s something they’re factoring in right now in terms of setting interest rates.