today the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ¾ of a percentage point we anticipate that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate we are continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet we will be looking for compelling evidence that inflation is moving down we expect ongoing rate hikes will be appropriate we think it’s time to just go to a meeting-by-meeting basis we think that there’s a path for us to be able to bring inflation down while sustaining a strong labor market we are highly attentive to inflation risks and determined to take the measures necessary to return inflation to our 2 percent longer-run goal we think that they’re probably necessary if we were to have—to get inflation—if we were to be able to get inflation back down on a path to 2 percent we wouldn’t hesitate to make an even larger move than we did today if the Committee were to conclude that that was—that that were appropriate we are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship we will strive to avoid adding uncertainty in what is already an extraordinarily challenging and uncertain time So we’re going to be—again, we’re going to be focused on getting inflation back down. We can’t have a strong labor market without price stability for an extended period of time. We want to get back to that, but that’s not happening. We think that there’s a path for us to be able to bring inflation down while sustaining a strong labor market. Restoring price stability is just something that we have to do. We do see that there are two-sided risks. I do not think the U.S. is currently in a recession. The unemployment rate at near a 50-year low at 3.6 percent. We’re going to be looking at all of those things: activity, labor market, inflation. We might do another unusually large rate increase. We’ll be watching that carefully. We need to see inflation coming down. We think there is a path to it. It is our goal. We’re going to be guided by the data. So, overall, you would say that, in all probability, demand is still strong, and the economy is still on track to continue to grow this year. Of course, that has to be our goal. It is our goal. We think it’s working fine. And we expect that’ll be the case. We’re going to get our policy rate to a level where we’re confident that inflation will be moving back down to 2 percent. We’re trying to achieve that. I don’t think I would do that again. We would look at the data tomorrow—and no doubt, we’ll look at it very carefully—and draw whatever implications we can. I think you could, in principle, you could see it coming back down pretty significantly. We’re seeing actual, you know, real declines in food consumption. We understand how painful it is, particularly for people who are living paycheck to paycheck and spend most of that paycheck on necessities. We are assigned uniquely and unconditionally the obligation of providing price stability to the American people.