Last month we quickly lowered our policy interest rate to near zero. We stated then and again today that we expect to maintain interest rates at this level until we’re confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. We will continue to use our tools to assure that the recovery, when it comes, will be as robust as possible. We have been purchasing large amounts of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities. We will continue our purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities as needed. We are also undertaking programs to provide stability to the financial system and to more directly support the flow of credit in the economy—for households, for businesses of all sizes, and for state and local governments. We will continue to use these powers forcefully, proactively, and aggressively until we’re confident that we are solidly on the road to recovery. We can only make loans to solvent entities that the— with the expectation that the loans will be repaid. We’re going to use them, as I mentioned, forcefully, proactively, and aggressively until we’re confident that we’re solidly on the road to recovery. We think that our policy stance today is right where it should be for now. We will keep using our authorities. We will probably be continuing to work and expand Main Street for some time, but it won’t be done quite as quickly. we're going to see significant declines in economic activity, significant declines in employment, and increases in unemployment. we think our current stance is appropriate. we're going to wait until we're quite confident that the economy is well on the road to recovery. we will follow through to validate that announcement effect. the ultimate demand for the facilities is quite difficult to predict. we will be there with our tools, supporting the economy and supporting that recovery. unemployment has tended to go up much faster for minorities and for others who are at the low end of the income spectrum. this is not the time to act on those concerns. we're very much in touch with the urgency of that need. the time will come again—and reasonably soon, I think—where we can think about a long-term way to get our fiscal house in order. we will need to ideally go into an unexpected shock like this with a much stronger fiscal posture. we will keep looking to add products and add different kinds of borrowers to that as we go. unemployment's going to go up to a high number in the second quarter. the path of it is highly uncertain, but we will be there with our tools, supporting the economy and supporting that recovery. the size and force of this shock will no doubt reveal weaknesses in the financial architecture. we will need to go to work on those. we think that inflation is very closely and strongly related to inflation expectations. we will need to—ideally, you would go into an unexpected shock like this with a—with a much stronger fiscal—fiscal posture. the Federal Reserve is strongly committed to maintaining 2 percent inflation over time. we’ll be monitoring it very carefully—would see through it, though, and look to core, which is a better predictor of future inflation. we’re not focused on the level of asset prices in particular, it’s just—markets are trying to price in something that is so uncertain as to be unknowable. we do have the tools to—to do what we can to—to keep people in touch with the labor force and working and also out of insolvency, too. we’re clearly moving into areas where there is more risk than there has been in the past. low interest rates support economic activity through channels that we—overall, through channels that we understand reasonably well. we’ll keep our rates where they are until we’re confident that the economy has weathered the effects of the outbreak and is on track to achieve our—our goals. we’re not going to be in any hurry to move rates up.