Today, the FOMC raised our policy interest rate by 75 basis points. We continue to anticipate that ongoing increases will be appropriate. We are continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet. Restoring price stability will likely require maintaining a restrictive stance of policy for some time. We anticipate that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. At some point—as I’ve said in the last two press conferences—it will become appropriate to slow the pace of increases as we approach the level of interest rates that will be sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to our 2 percent goal. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting and communicate our thinking as clearly as possible. We are taking forceful steps to moderate demand so that it comes into better alignment with supply. We will stay the course until the job is done. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. It’s highly uncertain—highly uncertain. But we do need, it would be irresponsible not to, to ignore them. So from a risk-management standpoint, we want to be sure that we don’t make the mistake of either failing to tighten enough or loosening policy too soon. It’s very premature to be thinking about pausing. We need ongoing rate hikes to get to that level of sufficiently restrictive. We’re well aware of what’s going on there. We didn’t see in this cycle the kinds of poor credit underwriting that we saw before the Global Financial Crisis. We look at a very wide range of data on the unemployment—on the labor market. We want to see—we would love to see vacancies coming down, quits coming down. We think there’s room for that. We’re seeing very high inflation in Europe, significantly because of high energy prices related to the war in Ukraine. We think about the spillovers and that sort of thing. We have a strong economy, and we have an economy where inflation is running at 5 percent. We need to use our tools to get inflation under control. We don’t directly affect, for the most part, food and energy prices. We want wages to go up—we just want them to go up at a level that’s sustainable and consistent with 2 percent inflation. We can support economic activity strongly if that happens, if that’s necessary. We’re far along now. We’re now focused on that. So this is an interesting subject. I would also say, it’s premature to discuss pausing. It appears, consumer spending is still positive—it’s at pretty modest growth levels. Demand is going to have some support from those savings and also from the strong demand that’s still in the labor market. Has it narrowed? Yes. Is it still possible? Yes. I think to the extent rates have to go higher and stay higher for longer, it becomes harder to see the path—it’s narrowed. Because we haven’t seen inflation coming down. That means that we have to have policy be more restrictive, and that narrows the path to a soft landing, I would say.