Today, we decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. The Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. We are prepared to tighten policy further if appropriate. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation, as well as the balance of risks. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 4.6 percent at the end of 2024, 3.6 percent at the end of 2025, and 2.9 percent at the end of 2026. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. We are highly, highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. The unemployment rate remains low at 3.7 percent. Inflation has eased over the past year but remains above our longer-run goal of 2 percent. We will make decisions about the extent of any additional policy firming and how long policy will remain restrictive based on the totality of the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. we see the need for further progress, and I think—I think it’s fair to say there is a lot of uncertainty about going forward. we’ll look at the totality of the data. we’re hoping to see something very different—which is a continuation of what we have seen, which is the labor market coming into better balance without a significant increase in unemployment. we’ll be very much keeping that in mind, as we make policy going forward. we’re very focused on not making that mistake. we will set policy according to what we actually see. we will do what we think is right. we’re moving carefully at this point. we’re very conscious of, and aware of, and monitor. we have to think, what’s the right thing? we will do the things that we think are right for the economy at the time we—when we think is the right time. we will get it down to 2 percent, but, you know, if we see stronger growth, we’ll—we will set policy according to what we actually see. The question of whether there have been fundamental structural shifts is really hard to know the answer and a very interesting one right now. So we’re going to be making policy in this difficult, uncertain, really unprecedented environment. We started slowing down at this meeting last year, reducing the pace at which we were adding restriction. The reason you wouldn’t wait to get to 2 percent to cut rates is that policy would be too late. I can’t give you a precise answer. I think that this inflation was not the classic demand overload, pot-boiling-over, kind of inflation that we [typically] think about. We’re not talking about altering the pace of QT right now, just to get that out of the way. We intend to reduce our securities holdings until we judge that the quantity of reserve balances has reached a level somewhat above that consistent with ample reserves. It depends on the reason.