Today we decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. Nearly all Committee participants view it as likely that some further rate increases will be appropriate this year to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. The Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5 to 5¼ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 5.6 percent at the end of this year. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. The Committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments. The process of getting inflation down is going to be a gradual one. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. We’ll look at those things. We’ll also look at the evolving risk picture. I think we’ve moved much closer to our destination, which is that sufficiently restrictive rate. I still think, and my colleagues agree, that, that the risks to inflation are to the upside still. We want to see it moving down decisively. I think stretching out into a more moderate pace is appropriate to allow you to make that judgment of sufficiency. We will, of course, continue to monitor conditions in money markets, and we’re prepared to make adjustments to make sure that monetary policy transmission works. I think we will see rents and house prices filtering into housing services inflation. I don’t do that. That’s really not my job. We hope and expect that other policymakers will respect our independence on monetary policy. I will say, and many of my predecessors have said, that we’re on an unsustainable fiscal path and that needs to be addressed over time. We, we see—the Committee—as you can see from the SEP, the Committee is completely unified in the need to get inflation down to 2 percent and will do whatever it takes to get it down to 2 percent over time. So we’re, we’re having real rates that are going to have to be meaningfully positive and significantly. So we do need to see, you know, rents bottom out here or at least stay quite low in terms of their increases because we want—we want inflation to come down. We do consider that when we’re thinking about what constitutes maximum employment—it is, for us, a broad and inclusive goal. We’re monitoring it carefully. We will be carefully monitoring that situation. We’re watching those things very carefully. We will take, if they’re macroeconomic implications, we can take that into account in our rate setting. We want that as part of the process of getting inflation back down to 2 percent, which benefits everyone. We do expect that there will be losses, but they’ll be—they’ll be banks that have concentrations, and those banks will experience larger losses.