Today my colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee and I reaffirmed our commitment to support the economy in this challenging time. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. At this meeting, my colleagues and I discussed our asset purchases and the role they are playing in supporting the recovery. We will continue to increase our holdings of Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities at least at the current pace. We believe these purchases, along with the very large purchases made to preserve financial stability in the depths of the crisis, have materially eased financial conditions and are providing substantial support to the economy. The Federal Reserve has also been taking broad and forceful actions to more directly support the flow of credit in the economy for households, for businesses large and small, and for state and local governments. We will put these emergency tools back in the toolbox when the time comes, after the crisis has passed. I do think it’s likely that further support is likely to be needed for monetary policy and fiscal policy. We have been concerned that the downside risks, though, are prevalent now, which are really the risk of the further spread of the disease and also the risk that households will run through the savings they’ve managed to accumulate on their balance sheet and that that could weigh on activity. We’re going to take the economy as it comes, including all external factors. The purchases that we have in place are providing strong support to economic activity still. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. we think that this very large, effective program is delivering about the right amount of accommodation and support for the markets, and so it continues. we’ve been talking about those since the very beginning of the pandemic. the economic recovery has exceeded, certainly, the downside cases that we were very concerned about and even, even exceeded—sort of exceeded the baseline expectations. we are a long way from our goals. we’ll try to continue to do that. we do think that the facilities have, have generally served their purposes well, particularly in supporting the flow of credit, particularly acting as backstops to private markets. we are just now turning to that question. we have not made any decisions. I think that we are strongly committed to using these powerful tools that we have to support the economy during this difficult time for as long as needed, and no one should have any doubt about that. I do think fiscal policy is absolutely essential here. we are very far from saying that we think we’ve got this and eliminated the tail risks. we do see in Europe—look what’s happening in Europe, look what’s happening here—another spike in cases as the cold weather arrives and people are inside more. we moved the minimum down to $250,000, and we were reluctant to go below that. we could certainly look at new facilities. we’re not out of ammo. we’re doing that with the Municipal Liquidity Facility now. we provide liquidity. we’re there to provide emergency liquidity when intermediation has broken down. we hope that the new changes will help us reach more. we could change the fee structure to create incentives for that. we’re buying municipal securities of up to three years. we only actually have to do a backstop. we will pull back on that when the markets normalize.