today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent and to continue reducing the size of the balance sheet. we’ll continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the outlook, and the balance of risks. If the large increases in tariffs that have been announced are sustained, they are likely to generate a rise in inflation, a slowdown in economic growth, and an increase in unemployment. Our obligation is to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored and to prevent a one-time increase in the price level from becoming an ongoing inflation problem. We may find ourselves in the challenging scenario in which our dual-mandate goals are in tension. At this meeting, the Committee continued its discussions as part of our five-year review of our monetary policy framework. We intend to wrap up the review by late summer. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. We think that leaves us in a good place to wait and see. We don’t feel like we need to be in a hurry. We think we’ll be learning. Doesn’t affect our—doing our job at all. The risk is—as we pointed out in our statement, the risks—the risks of higher unemployment and higher inflation have risen, but they haven’t materialized yet. Our policy’s in a very good place, and the right thing to do is to await further clarity. We think it’s in a good place, and we think the appropriate thing is for us to wait and see and get more clarity about, about the direction of the economy. Businesses and households very broadly are concerned and, you know, postponing economic decisions of various kinds. We’re watching it extremely carefully, like everyone is, but don’t see really much evidence of it in the actual economic data yet. We did things—essentially, we were on an emergency footing for a couple of years in the pandemic. We could have explained the QE a little better. We’re not going to get it perfect. We don’t give Congress fiscal advice. We think our policy rate is in a good place. We’re going to need to see how things play out before we make those decisions. So I’m not going to try to be really specific about what we need to see in terms of the number. Of course that’s one of our two variables, and we would look to be able to support that. We had—coming out of the March meeting, we, we—the public generally had an assessment of where tariffs were going. And that has the potential to change the picture materially or not. But I—you know, we simply have to wait and see how it works out. So the impact of the imported inflation may delay. I think it’s going to be very important how that shakes out. The labor market is solid. Inflation is low. There’s no real cost to our waiting at this point. We can afford to be patient as things unfold. We want to make the best decisions for the people that we serve. We don’t have, you know, the kind of tools that are good at dealing with supply chain problems. We don’t see the inflation yet. We’re, of course, reading the same stories and watching the same data as everybody else. I think once you have a direction—a clear direction, you can make a—we can make a judgment about how fast to move. It’s really appropriate, we think, for us to be patient and wait for things to unfold as we get more clarity about what we should do.