today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged to continue to reduce our securities holdings the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent we do not need to be in a hurry to adjust our policy stance we can maintain policy restraint for longer we can ease policy accordingly we will assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks we intend to wrap up the review by late summer we remain committed to supporting maximum employment we will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals So one of the things our staff does is they look at a range of possible outcomes, and they tend to go from really good to really bad, and it's one of the best things that they do. We think that we see the pathway for that to happen. We're under 2 percent, but our goal is 2 percent, and we do mean to get back sustainably to 2 percent. We do watch it extremely carefully. We do intend to reduce the size of our balance sheet to a level that’s consistent with implementing monetary policy efficiently and effectively in our ample-reserves regime. We’re closely monitoring a range of indicators to assess conditions, and that should provide signals whether reserves are approaching a level that could be judged as, quote, 'somewhat above ample.' I think our eyes are telling us that our policy is having the effects on the economy. We just don’t know, and I don’t want to start speculating, as tempting as it is, because we really don’t know. We think that our policy stance is restrictive. I wouldn’t say all the way back down to 2 percent on a sustainable basis, although we’d love to see that, of course, and we will. Trade policy uncertainty, if it’s large and persistent, can start to matter for businesses making investment decisions. No, I wouldn’t say that. We, we’ve never said we need to be all the way at target to reduce rates. So I, I think if—we would want to see further progress, but we think our—we think our—as I mentioned, we think that our policy stance is restrictive. I do think that—you know, we found in, in 2018, [when] there was a lot of work done on trade policy uncertainty, trade policy uncertainty, if it’s large and persistent, can start to matter for businesses making investment decisions and things like that. But, you know, we also—we look at overall financial conditions, and you’ve got—you can’t just take—you can’t just take equity prices. One, one is, is that there’s a low hiring rate. And so that if, if there were to be a spike in layoffs, if companies were to start to reduce headcount, you would see unemployment go up pretty quickly, because the hiring rate is quite low. And, really, it’s high inflation for the basics of life. But, you know, overall, this is a good labor market. I wouldn’t compare it to the Global Financial Crisis or anything like that, given that we have actually a very good economy right now. So, as, as I mentioned, the economy’s strong, the labor market’s solid, downside risks to the labor market appear to have abated, and we think disinflation continues on a slow and sometimes bumpy path. I think that goal has served us well over a long period of time. I would not look at changing it anyway, but I certainly wouldn’t look at, at it at a time when you’re not—when you’re not meeting it. We’re not—we’re not going to change the inflation goal any time soon. So, you know, we’re, we’re not against innovation, and we certainly don’t want to, to take actions that would cause banks to, you know, to terminate customers who are perfectly legal just because of, of excess risk aversion maybe related to regulation and supervision.