Today the Federal Open Market Committee kept interest rates near zero and maintained our asset purchases. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. At our meeting that concluded earlier today, the Committee had a discussion on the progress made toward our goals since the Committee adopted its asset purchase guidance last December. We will provide advance notice before announcing any decision to make changes to our purchases. The IOER and overnight RRP rates were adjusted upward by 5 basis points in order to keep the federal funds rate well within the target range and to support smooth functioning in money markets. The pandemic continues to pose risks to the economic outlook. Indicators of economic activity and employment have continued to strengthen, and real GDP this year appears to be on track to post its fastest rate of increase in decades. As these transitory supply effects abate, inflation is expected to drop back toward our longer-run goal. We will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. Participants expect continued progress ahead toward that objective. it will be appropriate to consider announcing a plan for reducing our asset purchases at a future meeting. the Committee will continue to assess the economy’s progress toward our goals, and we’ll give advance notice before announcing any decision. the judgment of when we have arrived at substantial further progress is one that the Committee will make. the main message I would take away from the SEP is that participants—many, many participants are more comfortable that the economic conditions in the Committee’s forward guidance will be met somewhat sooner than previously anticipated. the focus of the Committee is the current state of the economy. we think it’s important—we think where the balance sheet’s concerned, a lot of notice, as much transparency as we can give, and as far—as far in advance as we can to give people a chance to adjust their expectations. we think it’s doing its job. we’re not concerned with it. we think it could have some impact. we’re going to do everything we can to get people back into work and give them the chance to work. we do think it’s appropriate to consider ways to adapt it to this new high-reserves environment. we’d like the leverage ratio to be a backstop to risk-based capital requirements. we do think it’s appropriate to consider ways to adapt it to this new high-reserves environment our expectation is that these, these high inflation readings that we’re seeing now will start to abate. we wouldn’t hesitate to use our tools to address that. it would be premature to declare victory. the statement language is evolving. the risk is, is something that can factor into people’s thinking about appropriate monetary policy. inflation expectations have continued to move up. the economy has the potential to grow at around 2 percent per year. we would be prepared to use our tools to address that. we’re looking at an economy that will not have the degree of fiscal support. the underlying forces around the globe that have created those dynamics are intact. we would be alert to factors that might raise r*. a higher neutral rate would mean that interest rates would run higher by that amount. we don’t want to be in a place where we can’t react. we will taper when we feel that the economy has achieved substantial further progress. we will communicate very carefully in advance on that. we will do what we can to avoid a market reaction. we will taper as appropriate. we have to balance the two—the two goals: maximum employment and price stability.