Today, the FOMC raised our policy interest rate by 25 basis points. We continue to anticipate that ongoing increases will be appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, bringing the target range to 4½ to 4¾ percent. With today’s action, we have raised interest rates by 4½ percentage points over the past year. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, taking into account the totality of incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. We are seeing the effects of our policy actions on demand in the most interest-sensitive sectors of the economy, particularly housing. Our overarching focus is using our tools to bring inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. We can now say, I think, for the first time that the disinflationary process has started. We expect to see that disinflation process will be seen, we hope soon, in the core goods ex. housing sector that I talked about. We think we’ve covered a lot of ground, and financial conditions have certainly tightened. We have a sector that represents 56 percent of the core inflation index where we don’t see disinflation yet. It would be premature to declare victory or to think that we’ve really got this. We see ourselves as having perhaps more persistent inflation in that sector, which will take longer to get down. We’ve raised rates 4½ percentage points, and we’re talking about a couple of more rate hikes to get to that level we think is appropriately restrictive. We continue to anticipate that ongoing increases in the target range will be appropriate in order to attain that stance of sufficiently restrictive monetary policy that will bring inflation down to 2 percent. We’re going to be carefully watching the economy and watching inflation and watching the progress of the disinflationary process. The Committee obviously did not see this as the time to pause. We’re not involved in those discussions. We have to deliver that. We think it has benefits that will support economic activity and benefit the public for many, many years. We’re going to be cautious about declaring victory and sending signals that we think that the game is won because we’ve got a long way to go. If the economy performs broadly in line with those expectations, it will not be appropriate to cut rates this year. I think there’s a good chance that those factors will help support positive growth this year. We’ll have two more employment reports, two more CPI reports, and we’ll be looking at those carefully as all of us will. if the economy performs broadly in line with those expectations, it will not be appropriate to cut rates this year, to loosen policy this year. I just—I don’t see us cutting rates this year if we get—if our outlook turns true, as I mentioned just now. I personally understand well that COVID is still out there, but that it’s no longer playing an important role in our economy. I do. Yeah, I do. You don’t see that yet. But no, there’s not much—it’s more of a risk. I think once inflation is seen to be coming down in coming months, even you will also see a boost to sentiment, I hope. It’s something that we monitor carefully. I believe that will happen. I don’t think there’s likely to be any important interaction between the two.