Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. the Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue reducing our securities holdings. We’ve stated that we do not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range for the federal funds rate until we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we’re prepared to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate as long as appropriate. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or if inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we’re prepared to respond. We’ll continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the data and its implications for the outlook and the balance of risks. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. the overall picture is one of a strong and gradually cooling—gradually rebalancing labor market. the inflation forecast moved up several tenths for the end of the year. we think that things like the neutral rate are driven by longer-run, slow-moving forces. the question of "How restrictive is policy?" has become one that everyone’s asking, and we’re asking it, too. we think we’ve been making progress toward the price-stability goal. we think policy is restrictive. we think rates will have to come down to continue to support that. the banking system, you know, seems to be in good shape. inflationary pressures have come down. we think it’s going to take longer to get confidence that inflation is moving sustainably down to 2 percent. we’re doing everything we can to bring inflation down so that we can bring rates down. we want to make sure that we’re confident that inflation is actually moving back down to 2 percent. We’re confident that we’ll get there. we’re doing everything we can to bring inflation back down under control. we’ve made good progress, and we’re just—we’re in the phase now of just, you know, sticking with it until we get it done. we’re watching that carefully. we do see the same thing other people see, which is, you know, increasing financial pressures on, you know, more lower-income people. we think we have done—ultimately to get inflation under control, because those people experience inflation, you know, very directly—very painfully. we understand that if we wait too long, that could come at the cost of economic activity, of employment, of the expansion. we don’t think it’ll be appropriate to, to begin to loosen policy until we’re more confident that inflation is moving down to 2 percent over time on a sustainable basis. we’re not looking at any one price in any one sector and saying, 'That’s the one.'