Today, in support of these goals, the Federal Open Market Committee kept interest rates near zero and updated its assessment of the progress that the economy has made toward the criteria specified in the Committee’s forward guidance for interest rates. we decided to speed up the reductions in our asset purchases. the Committee reaffirmed the 0 to ¼ percent target range for the federal funds rate. At today’s meeting, the Committee also decided to double the pace of reductions in its asset purchases. we will reduce the monthly pace of our net asset purchases by $20 billion for Treasury securities and $10 billion for agency mortgage-backed securities. we will be watching carefully to see whether the economy is evolving in line with expectations. we understand that high inflation imposes significant hardship, especially on those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. we will use our tools both to support the economy and a strong labor market and to prevent higher inflation from becoming entrenched. the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate is 0.9 percent at the end of 2022, about ½ percentage point higher than projected in September. participants expect a gradual pace of policy firming, with the level of the federal funds rate generally near estimates of its longer-run level by the end of 2024. we remain prepared to adjust the pace of purchases if warranted by changes in the economic outlook. we’re making rapid progress toward maximum employment. we're making rapid progress toward maximum employment in my thinking, in my opinion. I think moving forward the end of our taper by a few months is really an appropriate thing to do. we started to see—it started to become clear that this was both larger in its effect on inflation and more persistent. we moved the taper forward and it’s a much faster taper than had been planned. I thought for a second there whether we should increase our taper, decided to go ahead with what we had 'socialized.' we don’t see—wages are not a big part of the high-inflation story that we’re seeing. if the economy were to slow down significantly, then you would expect that would have an effect of slowing down rate increases. we would certainly—we would not, in any way, want to foreclose the idea that the labor market can get even better. the number-one thing would really be to have the pandemic get under control. We see consumer expense as very strong in this quarter. I do think there’s a broad expectation among forecasters, including our own, that the bottlenecks will alleviate sometime over the course of this year. I think we are well positioned to deal with, with what’s coming, with the range of plausible outcomes that can come. I think we’re reacting to that now. I would say asset valuations—I’m going to go really superficially here, but asset valuations are somewhat elevated, I would say. I think the concerns there are not so much current financial-stability concerns. I do think those are longer term. I think we know how to deal with bad loans and things like that. I think more—a cyberattack that were to take down a major financial institution or financial market utility would be a really significant financial stability risk that we haven’t actually faced yet. I think we are in a position to deal with that risk. I think we’re going to be seeing a few more months of data. we think our policy is the right one for the situation that we are in. I just came to the view over that weekend that we needed to speed up the taper. So, as I mentioned, we got the ECI reading just before the November meeting. It was really the CPI reading, in concert with those two, and I just came to the view over that weekend that we needed to speed up the taper. And it had absolutely nothing to do with it whatsoever. We are not the CBO, and we’re not elected by anybody. So we take fiscal policy as it arrives at our front door, and we don’t comment—you know, we make our own assessments inside the Fed, but it’s really not our role.