Today the FOMC kept interest rates near zero and maintained our sizable asset purchases. we will continue to increase our holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage-backed securities by at least $40 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. we will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. we expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. the median projection is 4.5 percent at the end of this year and moves down to 3.5 percent by the end of 2023. the unemployment rate remains elevated at 6.2 percent in February; this figure understates the shortfall in employment, particularly as participation in the labor market remains notably below pre-pandemic levels. the economic downturn has not fallen equally on all Americans, and those least able to shoulder the burden have been the hardest hit. the overall recovery in economic activity since last spring is due importantly to unprecedented fiscal and monetary policy actions, which have provided essential support to households, businesses, and communities. the path of the economy continues to depend significantly on the course of the virus and the measures undertaken to control its spread. the economic recovery remains uneven and far from complete, and the path ahead remains uncertain. we will continue to provide the economy the support that it needs for as long as it takes. we will want to provide as much advance notice of any potential taper as possible. inflation run moderately above 2 percent for some time. we’re not going to act preemptively based on forecasts for the most part. we’ll supply clear communication well in advance of, of actually tapering. the path of the virus continues to be very important. there are 10 million people who need to get back to work. the stance of our—of monetary policy remains appropriate. we think that our asset purchases in their current form...is the right place for our asset purchases. we monitor and communicate very regularly about different labor market—disparities in the labor market. the recovery has been faster than we expected. we think we’ve probably avoided the worst cases there. we’re going to continue our data-driven approach. we haven’t made a decision on that. we’ll release those results before the end of June. we want to see labor market conditions that are consistent with our estimates of maximum employment. we think it serves a useful purpose. Of course, this isn’t a decision to lift off now. We’ll make that decision then. We think it serves a useful purpose. I’m just saying, that, that is what fiscal policy can do that, really, monetary policy can’t do. So, as you know, financial stability for us is, is a framework. We report on it semiannually, the Board gets a report on it quarterly, and we monitor every day. So if you look at asset valuations, you can say that by some measures, some asset valuations are elevated compared to history. We need to go back and look at that. We’re committed to robustly implementing that guidance. We’ll tell people when we think—until we—until we say—until we give a signal, you can assume we’re not there yet. We understand fully that that test is one that involves judgment. We’re looking at the amount of savings. We’ve made very conservative assumptions and sensible mainstream assumptions at each step of that process. It’ll wear off quickly, though, because it—just the way the numbers are calculated. Those things could lead to—and we’ve, we’ve modeled that. We know that inflation dynamics do evolve over time. we’ll of course adjust. Our outcome-based guidance will immediately adapt, we think, to meet whatever the actual path of the economy is. I think it’s impossible to say, frankly, with any confidence, but I, I would expect it’s very possible—let’s put it that way—that you will see bottlenecks emerge and then clear over time. the strong data are ahead of us. COVID cases are coming down. Vaccination is moving, now, quickly. you’ll probably see that over a period of time, because, you know, really, the, the strong data are ahead of us. it’s not like the supply side will be unable to adapt to these things. the market will clear. you’ll see a lot of that here too, I think.