Today, in support of these goals, the Federal Open Market Committee kept its policy interest rate near zero and stated its expectation that an increase in this rate would soon be appropriate. The Committee also agreed to continue reducing its net asset purchases on the schedule we announced in December—bringing them to an end in early March. In light of the remarkable progress we’ve seen in the labor market and inflation that is well above our 2 percent longer-run goal, the economy no longer needs sustained high levels of monetary policy support. That is why we are phasing out our asset purchases and why we expect it will soon be appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate. We will use our tools both to support the economy and a strong labor market and to prevent higher inflation from becoming entrenched. We understand that high inflation imposes significant hardship, especially on those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. The labor market has made remarkable progress and, by many measures, is very strong. Job gains have been solid in recent months, averaging 365,000 per month over the past three months. Inflation remains well above our longer-run goal of 2 percent. We’ll need to be nimble so that we can respond to the full range of plausible outcomes. The Committee has not made decisions regarding the specific timing, pace, or other details of shrinking the balance sheet. We will discuss these matters in upcoming meetings and provide additional information at the appropriate time. We said at our last meeting we published the Summary of Economic Projections, the median of which—the median participant expected three rate increases this year. We’ll make a decision whether to raise the federal funds rate. The Committee is of a mind to raise the federal funds rate at the March meeting, assuming that conditions are appropriate for doing so. We expect some softening in the economy from Omicron, but we think that that should be temporary. We’re committed to using our tools to make sure that inflation, high inflation that we’re seeing, does not become entrenched. We do expect this year—although we do expect now that it will come slower than we had expected and hoped—that there will be relief on the supply side. We’ll be asking this question all year long, and that will be, are things turning out as we expect? The one risk is that inflation risks are still to the upside in the views of most FOMC participants and, certainly, in my view as well. We’ve got to be in a position to address different outcomes, including the one where inflation remains. We’re going to have to adapt. The inflation situation is about the same but probably slightly worse. I think to the extent the situation deteriorates further, our policy will have to address that. We will eventually get relief on the supply side. We’ll start the process of allowing runoff and shrinking the balance sheet at what we find to be the appropriate time. We fully appreciate that this is a different situation. So, as I mentioned, we have not made these decisions. We really haven’t. We have inflation running substantially above 2 percent and, and, you know, more persistently than we would like. We see a labor market where, by so many measures, it is historically tight. We think there’s, there’s a pool of people out there who could come back into the labor force. We haven’t made—to your specific question—we really have not addressed those questions. We expect progress to be made in the second half of this year. We think we are positioned to make the changes in our policy to do that, and, and we’re committed to doing that. We’re trying to do that in a process that, that, that accomplishes—you know, that will also leave the labor market in a very strong position. We do hope to achieve, and our plan is to achieve, both of those goals. We will be clearly monitoring incoming data as well as the evolving outlook. We have the strongest recovery of any, any country. We’re managing the, the relatively high-class problems that come with that, which are high inflation and a labor shortage. We do monitor the slope of the yield curve, but we don’t control the slope of the yield curve. We’re going to write down in March our next assessment of what that might be. We need to be quite adaptable, I think, in our understanding of this. We have a financial stability framework. We don’t think of it as—I don’t think of it as some kind of an iron law.