today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged. we also made the technical decision to slow the pace of decline in the size of our balance sheet. the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent. At today’s meeting, we also decided to slow the pace of decline in our balance sheet. we will adjust our policy stance in a manner that best promotes our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. If the economy remains strong and inflation does not continue to move sustainably toward 2 percent, we can maintain policy restraint for longer. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can ease policy accordingly. we intend to wrap up the review by late summer. we will be open to new ideas and critical feedback, and we will take on board lessons of the last five years in determining our findings. we understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. We’ve been watching that, and it’s just not in the data. There’s healthy levels of job creation, too. I mentioned that—you, you saw it—we’ve had two, two very strong goods inflation readings in the last two months, which is very unexpected. But it must have something to do with—it’s either noise and it’ll come back, and that—that’s very possible, too. So things happen very indirectly, and so there’ll be a lot of work done in the coming months to, to try to trace all that through. We don’t know what—where that—how far that will go. We have to look at this as a—as a different situation. We hear that people are very reluctant to take on—to, you know, to allow prices to go up. We have maximum employment and price stability, and we have to balance those. There’s always an unconditional probability—possibility of, of a recession. If you look at outside forecasts, forecasters have, have generally raised—a number of them have raised their possibility of a—of a recession somewhat, but still at relatively moderate levels. We don’t make such a forecast. I think we will. We’re obviously aware of the soft sentiment data and high uncertainty, and we’re watching that carefully. We think it’s a good time for us to wait for further clarity before we consider adjusting our policy stance. We understand that sentiment has fallen off pretty sharply, but economic activity has not yet. We’re going to try to be timely with that. We’re going to cut it roughly in half. We know that tariffs are coming, and we know that they’re probably already—all, all forecasters have tariff inflation affecting core PCE inflation [and] core CPI inflation this year, without exception. We’re going to do the same thing we’d already done, which is, once we—I guess in June, we—was it June? we came around to the view that this was a good time to make the move that we made. we’re going to cut it roughly in half. we still think that reserves are abundant. we’re not going to miss any evidence that longer-term or medium-term inflation expectations are moving. we’re at very low unemployment for, you know, for quite a time now. we may or may not stop MBS runoff. we’re well positioned to wait for further clarity. we’re not going to get ahead of that. we don’t see that yet. we’re looking at pausing, and we looked at slowing. it’s just kind of a commonsense adjustment as you get closer and closer.