Today, the Federal Open Market Committee kept interest rates near zero and maintained our current pace of asset purchases. If progress continues broadly as expected, the Committee judges that a moderation in the pace of asset purchases may soon be warranted. While no decisions were made, participants generally view that, so long as the recovery remains on track, a gradual tapering process that concludes around the middle of next year is likely to be appropriate. We continue to expect that it will be appropriate to maintain the current 0 to ¼ percent target range for the federal funds rate until labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee’s assessment of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on track to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time. Half of FOMC participants forecast that these favorable economic conditions will be fulfilled by the end of next year; as a result, the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate lies slightly above the effective lower bound in 2022. Participants generally expect a gradual pace of policy firming that would leave the level of the federal funds rate below estimates of its longer-run level through 2024. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. The path of the economy continues to depend on the course of the virus, and risks to the economic outlook remain. The Fed’s policy actions have been guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people, along with our responsibilities to promote the stability of the financial system. We will do everything we can to support the economy for as long as it takes to complete the recovery. So my thinking on this has been: Let’s get through the taper decision, and then let’s turn to those issues. We think it’s our obligation to do the work, both on technology and public policy, to form a basis for making an informed decision. We haven’t made a decision about the CBDC, but we will be issuing a discussion paper soon in order to form the basis of this public interaction that we’ll have. I don’t think we’re behind. I think it’s more important to do this right than to do it fast. The ultimate test we’ll apply when assessing a central bank digital currency and other digital innovations is: Are there clear and tangible benefits that outweigh any costs and risks? We would do this, we would have to have a meeting of the minds with the Administration and also probably with Congress.