At today’s meeting, my colleagues and I decided to leave our policy rate unchanged. We believe monetary policy is well positioned to serve the American people by supporting continued economic growth, a strong job market, and a return of inflation to our symmetric 2 percent goal. Overall, with monetary and financial conditions supportive, we expect moderate economic growth to continue. Inflation continues to run below our symmetric 2 percent objective. We will be monitoring the effects of the policy actions we took last year, along with other information bearing on the outlook, as we assess the appropriate path of the target range for the federal funds rate. If developments emerge that cause a material reassessment of our outlook, we would respond accordingly. We decided to make a small technical upward adjustment to administered rates to ensure that the federal funds rate trades well within the target range. We expect that the underlying level of reserves will durably reach ample levels sometime in the second quarter of this year. We’re committed to completing the transition to our longer-run ample-reserves regime smoothly and predictably. We think that the—we think we need to continue purchases until the—until reserves are at a level at which they will not go below $1½ trillion. We expect that to happen during the second quarter. The labor market continues to be strong. We are a country that has low labor force participation compared to essentially all of our advanced-economy peers, and it’s a very good, positive thing. I expect that we will conclude the review and announce our conclusions around the middle of the year. Of course, we are very carefully monitoring the situation. I would say, now there are grounds for what I would call 'cautious optimism' about the outlook now for the global economy. We are not at all assured of a global rebound, but there are signs and reasons to expect it. We want it to be well within the range. We haven’t decided—we haven’t at all made a decision on a standing repo facility. I think it was wise to wait, because we’re still getting a better sense of what that—what that world looks like. I would say that sort of feeds into the way we’re thinking about climate change as an institution. We’ve attended all of their meetings and taken part in them, and we’ve been looking at joining in one form or another. A sustained reduction in uncertainty over time should improve business sentiment, investment, which would provide some additional support for the economy. We will be announcing our findings. We learned that we can’t let reserves—we shouldn’t let reserves go below $1½ trillion—roughly, the level of early September—at any point. We will be looking tomorrow and voting on a new part of the existing Volcker rule, and that is the covered fund provisions of the rule. We think that what we’re doing is very consistent with safety and soundness and absolutely consistent with the letter and spirit of the Volcker rule. We believe we can get to that state at the current pace sometime in the second quarter. We think it’s appropriate. We think it’ll remain appropriate as long as data coming in are broadly in keeping with our outlook. We do see asset valuations as being somewhat elevated—I do—somewhat elevated. We think this is a good way. It’s also just a good time to take on board the way the delivery of banking services has changed through technology and demographic change as well. We haven’t made any decisions about what we’re going to do, about whether we’ll propose—I mean, our focus has been entirely on trying to get to agreement with the OCC, really. We think that it’s not something that would threaten financial stability, but more be an amplifier. We have to do what’s best for the overall society and the economy.