Today, the FOMC kept interest rates near zero and, in light of the progress the economy has made toward our goals, decided to begin reducing the pace of asset purchases. At today’s meeting, the Committee judged that the economy has met this test, and decided to begin reducing the pace of its asset purchases. We will reduce the monthly pace of our net asset purchases by $10 billion for Treasury securities and $5 billion for agency mortgage-backed securities. If the economy evolves broadly as expected, we judge that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases will likely be appropriate each month. Our decision today to begin tapering our asset purchases does not imply any direct signal regarding our interest rate policy. We understand the difficulties that high inflation poses for individuals and families, particularly those with limited means to absorb higher prices for essentials such as food and transportation. We will be watching carefully to see whether the economy evolves in line with our expectations, and policy will adapt appropriately. We don’t think it’s time yet to raise interest rates. We are prepared to adjust the pace of purchases if warranted by changes in the economic outlook. We will use our tools as appropriate to get inflation under control. We don’t think it’s a good time to raise interest rates, though, because we want to see the labor market heal further. We will use our tools over time to make sure that that doesn’t become a permanent feature of life. We’re going to have to see some time post-COVID so that we know—or post-Delta, anyway—to see what is possible. We have to balance that with what’s going on in the employment market. We will, we hope to achieve significantly greater clarity about where this economy is going and what the characteristics of the post-pandemic economy are over the first half of next year. We need to be in a position to act in case it becomes necessary to do so or appropriate to do so, and we think we will be. We don’t think it’s time to raise rates now. That’s a decision for the Committee. We’re not at maximum employment. We will do it well. We expect them, and the public will expect us to expect them, to understand and be in a position to manage their risks. We had no moment of denial about that. I do think it would be premature to raise rates today. The Committee unanimously felt today that we had met the test that we’d articulated, and this was appropriate. We are prepared for different eventualities, and we will use our tools to achieve price stability and maximum employment. We see that just like everybody else does, and we see that they’re now on track to persist well into next year. We’re going to let the data lead us to where we need to go. We expect that’s exactly what we’ll do in coming meetings. I think it’s too soon to say what the reputational damage is. I think we have to make sure that that’s always a first order of concern as well. I think we need to be humble about what the limits are of labor force participation. I’m very open to the thought that it’s going to be an empirical question of where it is located.