Today, we decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. the Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. We are committed to achieving and sustaining a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to our 2 percent goal over time. If the economy evolves as projected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 5.6 percent at the end of this year, 5.1 percent at the end of 2024, and 3.9 percent at the end of 2025. We’re prepared to raise rates further if appropriate, and we intend to hold policy at a restrictive level until we’re confident that inflation is moving down sustainably toward our objective. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Reducing inflation is likely to require a period of below-trend growth and some softening of labor market conditions. We want to see convincing evidence, really, that we have reached the appropriate level, and then, you know, we’re—we’ve—we’ve seen progress, and, and we welcome that. We want to see that this, this—these good inflation readings that we’ve been seeing for the last three months—we want to see that it’s more than just three months, right? We’re not saying—yeah, no, no—clearly, we’re just—what we decided to do is maintain a policy rate and await further data. We need policy to be restrictive so that we can get inflation down to target. It’s, it’s just a question of reaching the right stance. Yes, of course. It is a—it is a good thing that we, we’ve seen now meaningful rebalancing in the labor market without an increase in unemployment. I still think, and I think, broadly, people still think, that there will have to be some softening in the labor market that can come through more supply, as we’ve seen as well. I’ve always thought that the soft landing was, was a plausible outcome—that there was a path, really, to, to a soft landing. We will restore price stability. We know that we have to do that, and we know the public depends on us doing that. We understand that it’s a real rate that will matter and that needs to be sufficiently restrictive. The decision that we make at, you know, at each meeting and, certainly, at the—at the last two meetings this year—it’s going to depend on the totality of all the data. The question will be, is, is the level—is GDP—is the—is the heat that we see in GDP—is it really a threat to our ability to get back to 2 percent inflation? We have to have confidence in that, and, you know, we’d be—we’d be looking at GDP just, just to the extent that it threatens one or both of those. We don’t comment on that. It hasn’t traditionally had much of a macroeconomic effect. The best thing we can do for everyone, we believe, is to restore price stability. I think we have come very far very fast in, in the, the rate increases that we’ve made. So we’re, we’re continuing that trend. But if you look at June, July, and August, you’re looking at, you know, really significant declines in core inflation, largely in the goods sector—also to some extent in housing services and just a little in nonhousing services. Headline inflation, of course, has come way down, largely due to lower energy prices, some of which is now reversing. But these are—these are our forecasts. I think it was important at the beginning that we move quickly, and we did. And I think the, the natural, commonsense thing to do is, as you approach that, you move a little more slowly as you get closer to it. We can let the data evolve. So, you know, energy prices are very important for the consumer. We’re watching that carefully. Consumer distress—measures of distress among consumers were at historic lows quite recently, you know, after—during and after the, the pandemic. They’re now moving back up to normal. Rates have moved up significantly. It’s not because of inflation. Supply is kind of structurally constrained. We’re seeing what we expect, which is measured housing services inflation coming down. We’re not looking for a decrease in consumer spending. If the economy comes in stronger than expected, that just means we’ll have to do more in terms of monetary policy to get back to 2 percent. Concern number one is, is restoring price stability. We have to deal with what comes. The biggest wage increases having gone to relatively low-wage jobs—and now [with] inflation coming down—you’re seeing [increases in] real wages, which is a good thing. I think now it’s a very 'hot' labor market, and you’re seeing high [growth in] nominal wages. I think we can take away and think about.