Bank Rate maintained at 0.1% - November The MPC voted by a majority of 7-2 to maintain Bank Rate at The Committee judged that the existing stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. The Committee voted by a majority of 6-3 for maintaining the target for the stock of these government bond purchases at £875 billion. The Committee's updated central projections for activity and inflation are set out in the accompanying Monetary Policy Report. UK GDP is projected to get back to its 2019 Q4 level in 2022 Q1. CPI inflation is now expected to peak at around 5% in April 2022, materially higher than expected in the August Report. The upward pressure on CPI inflation is expected to dissipate over time, as supply disruption eases, global demand rebalances, and energy prices stop rising. At its recent meetings, the Committee has judged that some modest tightening of monetary policy over the forecast period was likely to be necessary to meet the 2% inflation target sustainably in the medium term. The Committee judges that, provided the incoming data, particularly on the labour market, are broadly in line with the central projections in the Monetary Policy Report, it will be necessary over coming months to increase Bank Rate in order to return CPI inflation sustainably to the 2% target. The Committee will, as always, continue to focus on the medium-term prospects for inflation. UK-weighted global GDP was estimated to have risen by 1.2% in 2021 Q3, a little weaker than had been expected in the Monetary Policy Report. Supply chain bottlenecks over recent months had reflected both strong demand for consumer goods in advanced economies, in particular in the United States, and further supply disruptions from localised lockdowns at some major Chinese ports and Covid-related closures of factories in other Asian economies. Cost pressures had continued to pass through to consumer prices in the euro area and in the United States. There had been some sizable movements in UK and global financial markets since the Committee's previous meeting. The sterling effective exchange rate index had risen by around 1% since the previous MPC meeting. Lending rates on mortgages with loan-to-value (LTV) ratios higher than 75% had continued to fall since the September meeting, despite the increases in risk-free rates. The latest Credit Conditions Survey had suggested that unsecured credit conditions for households had continued to loosen somewhat. UK quarterly GDP growth in 2021 Q2 had been revised up to 5.5% in the Quarterly National Accounts (QNA). Estimates of GDP had also been revised higher in preceding quarters, such that the cumulative shortfall in activity since 2019 Q4 was estimated to have been 3.3%, contrasting with an initial estimate of 4.4% and the 4.3% that had been implied in the Monetary Policy Report projection. UK GDP was estimated to have risen by 0.4% in August, following a 0.1% fall in July, with activity slightly weaker than expected at the time of the August Report despite the upward revisions to preceding quarters. Much of the downside news since the August Report had appeared to reflect the impact of supply chain disruption, particularly for businesses in the manufacturing and construction sectors. High-frequency indicators suggested that consumer spending had recovered further since the summer, but at a more modest pace than had been anticipated at the time of the August Report. Indicators of confidence among UK households had fallen in recent weeks, and by more than had been seen in other economies. Businesses' investment intentions over the year ahead had remained robust, although to a lesser degree in the near term. Overall, GDP was expected to grow by around 1.5% in 2021 Q3 and by 1% in Q4 in the November Report projections, around half of the rates envisaged in the August Report. The Labour Force Survey (LFS) unemployment rate had fallen to 4.5% in the three months to August, 0.3 percentage points lower than had been expected at the time of the Monetary Policy Report. The jobless rate had remained above its 2019 Q4 level, however, with that increase almost entirely accounted for by those that had been unemployed for six months or longer. The LFS inactivity rate had fallen slightly in the three months to August, accounted for largely by a fall in inactive students and discouraged workers, but was still around 1 percentage point higher than immediately prior to the pandemic. Indicators of employment demand and labour market tightness had remained elevated. Private-sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) had risen by 6.8% in the three months to August on a year earlier, broadly in line with expectations at the time of the August Report. Twelve-month CPI inflation had fallen slightly, from 3.2% in August to 3.1% in September. Bank staff expected CPI inflation to rise to just under 4% in October, accounted for predominantly by the impact on utility price inflation of previously announced increases in Ofgem's standard variable tariff caps on gas and electricity prices. Most survey indicators of costs and prices were at historically elevated levels. Wholesale gas prices had continued to rise sharply since the September MPC meeting, although they had fallen back at the very end of October. Since the MPC's previous meeting, the Citi/YouGov measure of household inflation expectations for the year ahead had risen from 4.1% in September to 4.4% in October, its highest level since 2008. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The Committee reviewed recent developments against the backdrop of its latest economic projections as set out in the accompanying Monetary Policy Report. UK-weighted global GDP was estimated to have risen by 1.2% in 2021 Q3, a little weaker than had been expected in the August Report. Supply chain bottlenecks and rising energy prices had continued to increase global cost pressures. Market-implied expectations for the path of Bank Rate over the year ahead had increased sharply since the MPC's September meeting. As of November 2021, the total stock of assets held in the Asset Purchase Facility had reached £871 billion. The Labour Force Survey (LFS) unemployment rate had fallen to 4.5% in the three months to August. Twelve-month CPI inflation had fallen slightly from 3.2% in August to 3.1% in September. The Committee would, nevertheless, continue to monitor very closely the risk that domestic and global demand and cost pressures could affect medium-term inflation expectations, and so wage and price setting. The Committee judged that, provided the incoming data, particularly on the labour market, were broadly in line with the central projections in the Monetary Policy Report, it would be necessary over coming months to increase Bank Rate in order to return CPI inflation sustainably to the 2% target. At this meeting, most members of the Committee judged that the existing stance of monetary policy, which included the previously announced £150 billion increase in the target stock of purchased assets, remained appropriate. For two members of the Committee, the economic outlook warranted a tightening in the monetary policy stance at this meeting. The Committee judged that there were two-sided risks around developments in the economy in the medium term, and would reach its assessment on the balance of these risks in light of the relevant data as they emerged. A decision to tighten policy at this meeting would reduce that risk, which might otherwise ultimately necessitate a more abrupt subsequent tightening in policy and hence a greater adjustment in growth and employment. The Committee noted that, in the November Monetary Policy Report central projections, CPI inflation was projected to be below the 2% target at the end of the forecast period, and would probably fall a little further beyond that point, given the margin of spare capacity that was expected to emerge. Looking beyond the coming months, the Committee would, as always, continue to focus on the medium-term prospects for inflation. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the propositions that: Bank Rate should be maintained at 0.1%; bond purchases, financed by the issuance of central bank reserves, at £20 billion; financed by the issuance of central bank reserves, maintaining the target for the stock of these purchases at £875 billion. Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill and Silvana Tenreyro) voted in favour of the first proposition. Two members (Dave Ramsden and Michael Saunders) voted against this proposition, preferring to increase Bank Rate by 15 basis points to 0.25%. The Committee voted unanimously in favour of the second proposition. Six members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Huw Pill and Silvana Tenreyro) voted in favour of the third proposition. Three members (Catherine L Mann, Dave Ramsden and Michael Saunders) voted against this proposition, preferring to reduce the target for the stock of UK government bond purchases from £875 billion to £855 billion. The Committee would keep the asset purchase programme under review. If needed, there was scope programme. The Committee had agreed to reinvest the cash flows associated with reductions in the stock of sterling non-financial investment-grade corporate bond purchases held by the Asset Purchase Facility back into eligible corporate bonds, commencing in November 2021.