Bank Rate increased to 0.75% - March At its meeting ending on March 2022, the MPC voted by a majority of 8-1 to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 0.75%. One member preferred to maintain Bank Rate at 0.5%. CPI inflation was expected to peak at around 7¼% in April 2022. Upward pressures on inflation were expected to dissipate over time. The MPC will review developments in the light of incoming data and their implications for medium-term inflation. The global economic outlook had deteriorated significantly following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in late February. GDP growth in the United States and in the euro area in 2021 Q4 had been broadly in line with expectations in the February Report. The increases in energy and other raw material prices were expected to boost global consumer price inflation significantly in the near term. The sterling effective exchange rate had fallen by 1.7% since the previous MPC meeting. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen to 5.5% in January, marginally above the February Monetary Policy Report forecast. CPI inflation was expected to rise to around 6% in February and March, before rising further, to around 8% in April, and remaining close to that rate for the rest of the quarter. The majority of this news could be attributed to energy prices. Food price inflation was expected to rise further, from 4.3% in January, reflecting the pass-through of cost increases over recent months. Core CPI inflation was expected to rise further, to around 5 to 5½% in 2022 Q2 accounted for largely by increases in core goods price inflation. The latest labour market indicators had continued to point to a tight and tightening labour market, which, alongside rising inflation, had contributed to strong pay growth. The Labour Force Survey (LFS) unemployment rate had fallen to 3.9% in the three months to January, as had been expected at the time of the February Report. Indicators of labour demand had remained strong. Private-sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) growth had risen to 4.1% in the three months to January on a year earlier, stronger than had been expected in the February Report. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The Committee reviewed recent economic news, against the backdrop of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and related developments. Due to recent developments, the impact of energy prices on real aggregate income was now likely to be materially larger than implied by the projections in the February Report, consistent with a weaker outlook for growth and employment, all else equal. Given the current tightness of the labour market, continuing signs of robust domestic cost and price pressures, and the risk that those pressures would persist, most members of the Committee judged that a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be increased by 0.25 percentage points, to 0.75%. Eight members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill, Dave Ramsden, Michael Saunders and Silvana Tenreyro) voted in favour of the proposition. Jon Cunliffe voted against the proposition, preferring to maintain Bank Rate at 0.5%. Based on its current assessment of the economic situation, the Committee judged that some further modest tightening in monetary policy might be appropriate in the coming months, but there were risks on both sides of that judgement depending on how medium-term prospects for inflation evolved.