Bank Rate increased to 3% - November In view of these considerations, the Committee has voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.75 percentage points, to 3%, at this meeting. The majority of the Committee judges that, should the economy evolve broadly in line with the latest Monetary Policy Report projections, further increases in Bank Rate may be required for a sustainable return of inflation to target, albeit to a peak lower than priced into financial markets. The MPC will take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The Committee will, as always, consider and decide the appropriate level of Bank Rate at each meeting. CPI inflation was 10.1% in September and is projected to pick up to around 11% in 2022 Q4, lower than was expected in August, reflecting the impact of the EPG. GDP is expected to decline by around ¾% during 2022 H2, in part reflecting the squeeze on real incomes from higher global energy and tradable goods prices. The labour market remains tight, although there are signs that labour demand has begun to ease. The risks around both sets of inflation projections are judged to be skewed to the upside in the medium term, however, in part reflecting the possibility of more persistence in wage and price setting. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The Committee continues to judge that, if the outlook suggests more persistent inflationary pressures, it will respond forcefully, as necessary. The Committee will take account of any additional information in the Government's Autumn Statement at its December meeting and in its next forecast in February. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. Since the Committee's September meeting, the most significant developments had been in fiscal policy, particularly regarding support for household energy prices, and in financial markets. As regards fiscal policy, further government interventions had reduced uncertainty around the outlook for UK retail energy prices. The MPC's forecast did not incorporate any further measures that might be announced in the Autumn Statement scheduled for November. There had been large moves in UK asset prices since the August Monetary Policy Report. The MPC's projections were conditioned on the path of Bank Rate implied by financial markets in the seven working days leading up to October. Overall, the path was around 2¼ percentage points higher over the next three years than in the August projection. In the immediate run-up to the MPC's November meeting, market-implied expectations for the path of Bank Rate had peaked at around 4¾%. Since the MPC's previous meeting, monthly GDP had been estimated to have fallen by 0.3% in August and most business survey indicators had weakened. The MPC's latest projections described a very challenging outlook for the UK economy. It was expected to be in recession for a prolonged period and CPI inflation would remain elevated at over 10% in the near term. The risks around that declining path for inflation were judged to be to the upside. The MPC would take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. All members of the Committee judged that an increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. Seven members judged that a 0.75 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 3%, was warranted at this meeting. For these members, with the labour market remaining tight, and cost and price pressures being elevated, a further, more forceful response from monetary policy was justified. One member preferred a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 2.75%, at this meeting. The clearer signs of the cost of living crisis taking hold on economic activity suggested a more gradated approach was warranted to avoid an overtightening in policy. One member preferred a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 2.5%, at this meeting. Monetary policy had already been restrictive in light of falling real incomes, with the economy now likely to be entering recession. The majority of the Committee judged that, should the economy evolve broadly in line with the latest Monetary Policy Report projections, further increases in Bank Rate might be required for a sustainable return of inflation to target, albeit to a peak lower than priced into financial markets. There were, however, considerable uncertainties around the outlook. The Committee continued to judge that, if the outlook suggested more persistent inflationary pressures, it would respond forcefully, as necessary. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be increased by 0.75 percentage points, to 3%. Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Importantly, most of the tightening in policy over the past year was yet to feed through to the real economy. In line with estimated transmission lags, the prevailing level of Bank Rate would, in time, result in a looser labour market and lower domestic inflationary pressures, such that medium-term inflation was likely to fall below target. However, there remained uncertainty over the size of second-round effects from high headline inflation, and over how far and how quickly the labour market would respond to the slowing in demand. This member therefore felt that a further gradual tightening was warranted on risk management grounds, albeit that these grounds were becoming weaker as the policy stance became more restrictive. The Committee would, as always, consider and decide the appropriate level of Bank Rate at each meeting. Two members voted against the proposition. Swati Dhingra preferred to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 2.75%, and Silvana Tenreyro preferred to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 2.5%. At its September 2022 meeting, the MPC had voted to begin sales of UK government bonds. On September, the Bank's Executive had postponed the start of these gilt sale operations, in light of the dysfunctional market conditions at that time. In a Market Notice published on October, the Bank had announced that, for 2022 Q4, gilt sale operations would be distributed evenly across the short and medium maturity sectors only. The first gilt sale operation, of £750 million, had taken place on November. The first operation in the corporate bond sales programme had taken place on September. On October, in light of the dysfunctional market conditions at that time, the Bank had temporarily paused its corporate bond sales operations for two weeks. Sales had restarted on October. On November 2022, the total stock of assets held for monetary policy purposes was £854 billion, comprising £837 billion of UK government bond purchases and £17.4 billion of sterling non‐financial investment‐grade corporate bond purchases. The following members of the Committee were present: Andrew Bailey, Chair, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Swati Dhingra, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Dave Ramsden, Silvana Tenreyro, Clare Lombardelli was present as the Treasury representative. Monetary Policy Committee (XLSX 0.1MB) Latest and News // Letter November Remit for the Monetary Policy Committee - November News // News release November Megan Greene reappointed as external member of the Monetary Policy Committee News // Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) November Bank Rate maintained at 4% - November Bank Rate maintained at 4% - November Monetary Policy Summary and Minutes September Monetary Policy Committee dates for 2026