Bank Rate increased to 1% - May The MPC voted by a majority of 6-3 to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 1%. Those members in the minority preferred to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 1.25%. Global inflationary pressures have intensified sharply following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This has led to a material deterioration in the outlook for world and UK growth. UK GDP is estimated to have risen by 0.9% in 2022 Q1, stronger than expected in the February Monetary Policy Report. The unemployment rate fell to 3.8% in the three months to February, and is likely to fall slightly further in coming months. Twelve-month CPI inflation rose to 7.0% in March, around 1 percentage point higher than expected in the February Report. The strength of inflation relative to the 2% target mainly reflects previous large increases in global energy and tradable goods prices. The Committee's updated central projections for activity and inflation are set out in the accompanying May Monetary Policy Report. In the May Report central projection, CPI inflation is expected to rise further over the remainder of the year, to just over 9% in 2022 Q2. The majority of that further increase reflects higher household energy prices following the large rise in the Ofgem price cap in April. Underlying nominal earnings growth has risen by more than projected in the February Report and is expected to strengthen in coming months. Companies generally expect to increase their selling prices strongly in the near term, following the sharp rises in their costs. Nonetheless, in the May Report central projection, UK GDP growth is expected to slow sharply over the first half of the forecast period. Although the unemployment rate is likely to fall slightly further in the near term, it is expected to rise to 5½% in three years' time given the sharp slowdown in demand growth. With monetary policy acting to ensure that longer-term inflation expectations are anchored at the 2% target, upward pressure on CPI inflation is expected to dissipate over time. Conditioned on the rising market-implied path for Bank Rate and the MPC's current forecasting convention for future energy prices, CPI inflation is projected to fall to a little above the 2% target in two years' time. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Recent developments have exacerbated materially both the near-term peak in CPI inflation, and the prospective negative impact on activity and medium-term inflationary pressures. Nevertheless, given the current tightness of the labour market, continuing signs of robust domestic cost and price pressures, and the risk that those pressures will persist, the Committee voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points at this meeting. Based on their updated assessment of the economic outlook, most members of the Committee judge that some degree of further tightening in monetary policy may still be appropriate in the coming months. The Committee reaffirms its preference in most circumstances to use Bank Rate as its active policy tool when adjusting the stance of monetary policy. As Bank Rate is now being increased to 1%, and consistent with the MPC's previous guidance, the Committee will consider beginning the process of selling UK government bonds held in the Asset Purchase Facility. The Committee has therefore asked Bank staff to work on a strategy for UK government bond sales, and will provide an update at its August meeting. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The Committee reviewed recent developments against the backdrop of its updated central projections for activity and inflation as set out in the accompanying May Monetary Policy Report. Global inflationary pressures had intensified sharply following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. UK GDP was estimated to have risen by 0.9% in 2022 Q1, stronger than had been expected in the February Report. The unemployment rate had fallen to 3.8% in the three months to February, and was likely to fall slightly further in coming months, consistent with a continuing tightening in the labour market and with a margin of excess demand at present. Surveys of business activity had generally remained strong. The level of GDP was expected to be broadly unchanged in 2022 Q2. In the May Report central projection, UK GDP growth was expected to slow sharply over the first half of the forecast period. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen to 7.0% in March, around 1 percentage point higher than had been expected in the February Report. In the May Report central projection, CPI inflation was expected to rise further over the remainder of the year, to just over 9% in 2022 Q2 and averaging slightly over 10% at its peak in 2022 Q4. Overall, four-quarter GDP growth was expected to be broadly flat in 2023. Although the unemployment rate was likely to fall slightly further in the near term, it was expected to rise to 5½% in three years' time given the sharp slowdown in demand growth. The strength of inflation relative to the MPC's 2% target mainly reflected previous large increases in global energy and tradable goods prices, the latter of which was due to the shift in global demand towards durable goods and to supply chain disruptions. The Bank staff's measure of underlying nominal earnings growth had risen by more than had been projected in the February Report and was expected to strengthen in coming months, given the further tightening of the labour market and some upward pressure from higher price inflation. Since the MPC's previous meeting, UK short-term financial market inflation compensation measures had continued to increase, as had measures of businesses' short to medium-term inflation expectations. The Committee would continue to monitor measures of inflation expectations very closely. With monetary policy acting to ensure that longer-term inflation expectations were anchored at the 2% target, upward pressure on CPI inflation was expected to dissipate over time. CPI inflation was projected to fall to a little above the 2% target in two years' time, largely reflecting the waning influence of external factors, and to 1.3% in three years, well below the target and mainly reflecting weaker domestic pressures. The risks to the inflation projection were judged to be skewed to the upside at these points, given the risks of more persistent strength in nominal wage growth and domestic price setting than had been assumed. The Committee turned to its immediate policy decision. The MPC's remit was clear that the inflation target applied at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Recent developments had exacerbated materially both the near-term peak in CPI inflation, and the prospective negative impact on activity and medium-term inflationary pressures. Nevertheless, given the current tightness of the labour market, continuing signs of robust domestic cost and price pressures, and the risk that those pressures would persist, all members of the Committee judged that an increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. Six members of the Committee judged that a further 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate to 1% was warranted at this meeting. Three members preferred a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate at this meeting. The MPC would continue to review developments in the light of incoming data and their implications for medium-term inflation. At this MPC meeting, the Committee reaffirmed its preference in most circumstances to use Bank Rate as its active policy tool when adjusting the stance of monetary policy. The Committee had therefore asked Bank staff to work on a strategy for UK government bond sales, and would provide an update at its August meeting.