Bank Rate increased to 3.5% - December The Committee has voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 3.5%, at this meeting. CPI inflation was expected to fall sharply from mid-2023, to some way below the 2% target in years two and three of the projection. The risks around that declining path for inflation were judged to be to the upside. Domestic wage and price pressures are elevated. Twelve-month CPI inflation fell from 11.1% in October to 10.7% in November. The announcement in the Autumn Statement that the extension of the EPG will cap household unit energy prices at a level consistent with a typical household dual fuel bill of £3,000 per year from April 2023 to March 2024 implies a slightly lower near-term path for energy bills than the working assumption made in the November Report. The overall impact on the CPI inflation projection at all of these horizons is estimated to be small. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Monetary policy will ensure that, as the adjustment to these shocks continues, CPI inflation will return to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term. The majority of the Committee judges that, should the economy evolve broadly in line with the November Monetary Policy Report projections, further increases in Bank Rate may be required for a sustainable return of inflation to target. There are considerable uncertainties around the outlook. The Committee continues to judge that, if the outlook suggests more persistent inflationary pressures, it will respond forcefully, as necessary. The MPC will take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. Bank staff now expected GDP to decline by 0.1% in 2022 Q4, 0.2 percentage points stronger than had been expected in the November Report. The S&P Global/CIPS UK composite output PMI had remained below the 50 no-change mark for the fourth consecutive month in November. Indicators of household consumption had remained weak. Most housing market indicators had continued to weaken in recent months, after several years of strength. Surveys of investment intentions had weakened further, and were consistent with small declines in business investment. The Autumn Statement had taken place on November, accompanied by both an Economic and fiscal outlook from the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) and new fiscal rules as set out in an updated Charter for Budget Responsibility. Overall, Bank staff estimated that the additional policy measures announced in the Autumn Statement could, relative to what had been assumed in the November Monetary Policy Report, increase the level of GDP by 0.4% in one year's time, leave it broadly unchanged at a two-year horizon, but reduce the level of GDP by 0.5% in three years' time. The Labour Force Survey (LFS) unemployment rate had risen to 3.7% in the three months to October, slightly higher than the expectation of 3.5% at the time of the November Monetary Policy Report. Annual whole-economy total pay growth had picked up slightly to 6.2% in the three months to October. Twelve-month consumer price inflation had fallen to 10.7% in November, from 11.1% in October. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. Six members of the Committee judged that a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 3.5%, was warranted at this meeting. The majority of the Committee judged that, should the economy evolve broadly in line with the November Monetary Policy Report projections, further increases in Bank Rate might be required for a sustainable return of inflation to target. One member preferred a 0.75 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 3.75%, at this meeting. The MPC would take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be increased by 0.5 percentage points, to 3.5%. Six members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Three members voted against the proposition. The Committee continued to judge that, if the outlook suggested more persistent inflationary pressures, it would respond forcefully, as necessary. The Committee would keep the pace of sales, and the implications for the completion date, under review.