Bank Rate maintained at 5.25% - June At this meeting, the Committee voted to maintain Bank Rate at 5.25%. Twelve-month CPI inflation fell to 2.0% in May from 3.2% in March, close to the May Monetary Policy Report projection. CPI inflation is expected to rise slightly in the second half of this year, as declines in energy prices last year fall out of the annual comparison. UK GDP appears to have grown more strongly than expected during the first half of this year. The considerable uncertainty around estimates derived from the ONS Labour Force Survey means that it is very difficult to gauge the evolution of labour market activity. The MPC judges that the labour market continues to loosen but that it remains relatively tight by historical standards. The collective steer from a range of indicators of aggregate pay growth has continued to ease in the latest data. Services consumer price inflation was 5.7% in May, down from 6.0% in March, but somewhat higher than projected in the May Report. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. Monetary policy will ensure that CPI inflation returns to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term. The restrictive stance of monetary policy is weighing on activity in the real economy, is leading to a looser labour market and is bearing down on inflationary pressures. Key indicators of inflation persistence have continued to moderate, although they remain elevated. Monetary policy will need to remain restrictive for sufficiently long to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term in line with the MPC's remit. The Committee has judged since last autumn that monetary policy needs to be restrictive for an extended period of time until the risk of inflation becoming embedded above the 2% target dissipates. The MPC remains prepared to adjust monetary policy as warranted by economic data to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably. It will therefore continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures and resilience in the economy as a whole, including a range of measures of the underlying tightness of labour market conditions, wage growth and services price inflation. As part of the August forecast round, members of the Committee will consider all of the information available and how this affects the assessment that the risks from inflation persistence are receding. On that basis, the Committee will keep under review for how long Bank Rate should be maintained at its current level. Twelve-month CPI inflation had fallen to 2.0% in May from 3.2% in March. Consumer goods price inflation had continued to ease as the cost pressures from previous external shocks had dissipated further. The Committee noted that the timing of the general election on July was not relevant to its decision at this meeting. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. Seven members judged that maintaining Bank Rate at 5.25% was warranted at this meeting. For some members within this group, the return of headline inflation to 2%, while welcome, was not necessarily indicative of the required sustained return to target. The MPC remained prepared to adjust monetary policy as warranted by economic data to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be maintained at 5.25%. Two members preferred a 0.25 percentage point reduction in Bank Rate at this meeting. The restrictive stance of monetary policy was weighing on activity in the real economy, was leading to a looser labour market and was bearing down on inflationary pressures. UK CPI inflation was expected to increase slightly in the second half of this year, as declines in energy prices last year fell out of the annual comparison. The Committee considered developments since the previous MPC meeting and how these informed the assessment that the risks from inflation persistence were receding.