Bank Rate increased to 2.25% - September In view of these considerations, the Committee voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 2.25%, at this meeting. The MPC will take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The scale, pace and timing of any further changes in Bank Rate will reflect the Committee's assessment of the economic outlook and inflationary pressures. At this meeting, the Committee agreed that the conditions were appropriate, and voted to begin the sale of UK government bonds held in the Asset Purchase Facility shortly after this meeting. There has been some modest downside news to underlying UK GDP growth in 2022 Q3, and faster indicators and contacts of the Bank's Agents suggest that the level of consumer spending is likely to have peaked in this quarter. Twelve-month CPI inflation fell slightly from 10.1% in July to 9.9% in August. The labour market is tight and domestic cost and price pressures remain elevated. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The economy has been subject to a succession of very large shocks. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. The most material economic news since the MPC's previous meeting had been on fiscal policy, with the announcement of the Government's response to the energy price shock and the scheduling of an additional Growth Plan announcement. The Guarantee would have the effect of reducing the near-term outlook for CPI inflation compared both with a counterfactual scenario in which there had been no policy action, and, to a lesser degree, relative to the August Monetary Policy Report projection, which also had no policy action but had been based on the lower path for gas prices at the time. The scheme would therefore act primarily to offset some of the impacts of the externally generated energy price shock on households and businesses. Since August, wholesale gas prices had been highly volatile, and there had been large moves in financial markets, including a sharp increase in government bond yields globally. The MPC's remit was clear that the inflation target applied at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The announced Energy Price Guarantee was expected to have the effect of significantly reducing the degree of uncertainty around the outlook for UK retail energy prices over the period of the Guarantee, and therefore also for CPI inflation. The labour market was tight and domestic cost and price pressures remained elevated. In view of these considerations, all members of the Committee judged that an increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. Five members judged that a further 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate to 2.25% was warranted at this meeting. Three members preferred a 0.75 percentage point increase in Bank Rate to 2.5% at this meeting. One member preferred a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate to 2% at this meeting. The MPC would take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The Committee reaffirmed that, as a matter of course, it would not continue to vote at each meeting on propositions regarding the stock of purchased assets outside a scheduled annual review. the Bank had announced on September that sales of APF corporate bonds via auctions would start one week later than previously announced, with the first operation to take place on September. The Bank would stand ready to conduct corporate bond buybacks during specified execution windows from the week beginning October. The details of the gilt sales programme voted on at this MPC meeting were set out in a Market Notice accompanying these minutes. These supplemented details set out in the Market Notice published by the Bank on September, confirming the commencement of these operations and providing further detail on the precise timing and size of gilt sale operations in the quarter ahead. The Committee had been briefed at its August meeting on operational changes to the Sterling Monetary Framework that would come into effect alongside the start of a gilt sales programme. The Bank would launch a new Short Term Repo (STR) facility to help to ensure that short-term market rates remained close to Bank Rate, and to allow the MPC to make future decisions about APF unwind independently of the implications for the supply of reserves. Details of the STR had been set out in a Market Notice on September. The first operation would take place on October, following the commencement of the gilt sales programme. The following members of the Committee were present: Andrew Bailey, Chair Ben Broadbent Jon Cunliffe Swati Dhingra Jonathan Haskel Catherine L Mann Dave Ramsden Silvana Tenreyro Clare Lombardelli was present as the Treasury representative.