Bank Rate maintained at 5.25% At this meeting, the Committee voted to maintain Bank Rate at 5.25%. The MPC continues to judge that the risks to its modal inflation projection are skewed to the upside. Twelve-month CPI inflation fell to 6.7% both in September and 2023 Q3, below expectations in the August Report. CPI inflation remains well above the 2% target, but is expected to continue to fall sharply, to 4¾% in 2023 Q4, 4½% in 2024 Q1 and 3¾% in 2024 Q2. The Committee continues to judge that the risks to its modal inflation projection are skewed to the upside. The MPC will continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures and resilience in the economy as a whole. The MPC's latest projections indicate that monetary policy is likely to need to be restrictive for an extended period of time. The Committee agreed that there had been little news in key indicators of UK inflation persistence since the MPC's previous decision. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The decision whether to increase or to maintain Bank Rate at this meeting was again finely balanced between the risks of not tightening policy enough when underlying inflationary pressures could prove more persistent, and the risks of tightening policy too much given the impact of policy that was still to come through. Six members judged that maintaining Bank Rate at 5.25% was warranted at this meeting. Three members preferred a 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 5.5%, at this meeting. The MPC would continue to monitor closely indications of persistent inflationary pressures and resilience in the economy as a whole. Monetary policy would need to be sufficiently restrictive for sufficiently long to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with the Committee's remit. The MPC's latest projections indicated that monetary policy was likely to need to be restrictive for an extended period of time. Further tightening in monetary policy would be required if there were evidence of more persistent inflationary pressures. Bank Rate should be maintained at 5.25%. Six members (Andrew Bailey, Sarah Breeden, Ben Broadbent, Swati Dhingra, Huw Pill and Dave Ramsden) voted in favour of the proposition. Three members (Megan Greene, Jonathan Haskel and Catherine L Mann) voted against the proposition, preferring to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 5.5%. At its September 2023 meeting, the MPC had voted to reduce the stock of UK government bond purchases held for monetary policy purposes by £100 billion over the 12-month period from October 2023 to September 2024. The first auction of that annual programme had taken place on October 2023. On November, the total stock of assets held for monetary policy purposes was £751 billion, comprising £750 billion of UK government bond purchases and £0.6 billion of sterling non‐financial investment‐grade corporate bond purchases.