Sovereign yields rose sharply across many advanced economies with much of the increase concentrated in measures of inflation compensation. In the United States, the five-year measure of inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS) rose by around 45 basis points. Policy sensitive rates increased across most advanced economies. The central banks of Norway and New Zealand raised their policy rates early in the period, and policy communications from the Bank of England and the Bank of Canada pointed to the potential for earlier policy firming than had been expected. In the United States, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate rose, implying an earlier date for raising the target range for the federal funds rate and a faster pace of rate hikes than was the case in September. Expectations for a reduction in the pace of net asset purchases coalesced further, and most survey respondents expected the tapering of asset purchases to start with the November purchase schedule with monthly reductions of $10 billion and $5 billion in Treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), respectively. Over the intermeeting period, U.S. equity indexes rose and the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500-the VIX-fell to post-pandemic lows. Turning to Desk operations, the manager noted that, should the Committee decide to announce a reduction in the pace of net asset purchases at this meeting, the Desk would issue a monthly purchase schedule on November 12 reflecting this change. If similar reductions in the net purchase pace were implemented in subsequent months, the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio would peak around next June at about $8.5 trillion. The maturity composition of SOMA Treasury coupon holdings would also be fairly close to that of the outstanding universe of Treasury securities, and the weighted average maturity would be shorter than after LSAP 3. Turning to money market developments, the manager noted that the transition away from LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) had gained momentum with a pick-up in the interdealer trading volume of Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) derivatives. Market participants were attentive to some temporary downward pressure on the SOFR over the period. The Federal Reserve's administered rates-the interest on reserve balances rate and the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) rate-continued to support effective interest rate control and, outside of month- and quarter-end, the federal funds rate remained stable over the period. Regarding the debt ceiling, the short-term resolution reached in October increased the debt limit by $480 billion. Market participants' estimates of the new date when the Treasury would exhaust its extraordinary measures and cash balance were wide-ranging but some estimates suggested the date might be as early as mid-December. Most market participants anticipated that a resolution to the debt ceiling would again be reached without a delayed payment on maturing Treasury securities although uncertainty about the debt ceiling resolution remained a source of concern in financial markets. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the November 2-3 meeting suggested that U.S. real GDP growth had slowed markedly in the third quarter after the first half's rapid pace. Labor market conditions continued to improve in September, though employment growth was slower than in recent months. Consumer price inflation in September-as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the PCE price index-was elevated. Growth in total nonfarm payroll employment slowed further in September, held down by a decline in state and local government employment. As of September, total payroll employment had retraced three-fourths of the losses seen at the onset of the pandemic. The unemployment rate declined from 5.2 percent in August to 4.8 percent in September; the unemployment rates for African Americans and Hispanics also declined over this period, but both rates remained well above the national average. The labor force participation rate edged lower in September, and the employment-to-population ratio moved up. Private-sector job openings, as measured by the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, stepped down in August but remained well above pre-pandemic levels. Initial claims for regular state unemployment insurance moved lower through late October and were approaching the levels seen before the pandemic. Recent weekly estimates of private-sector payrolls constructed by the Board's staff using data provided by the payroll processor ADP were especially volatile but, on balance, appeared consistent with a pickup in the pace of private employment gains relative to September. The employment cost index of hourly compensation in the private sector rose 4.1 percent over the 12 months ending in September; this gain was noticeably larger than the index's year-earlier 12-month change and was the fastest 12-month change since 2001. Total PCE price inflation was 4.4 percent over the 12 months ending in September, and core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 3.6 percent over the same period. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 2.3 percent in September. In the third quarter of 2021, the staff's common inflation expectations index, which combines information from many indicators of inflation expectations and inflation compensation, was little changed relative to the second quarter and remained at its highest level since 2014. Real PCE posted a modest increase in the third quarter after having risen sharply over the first half of the year. The third-quarter slowdown appeared to reflect a combination of factors, including the waning effect of previous fiscal stimulus measures, the surge in COVID-19 cases over the summer, and a plunge in motor vehicle purchases as extremely low dealer inventories constrained sales. Residential investment dropped further in the third quarter; although demand for housing was strong, shortages of construction supplies as well as tight land and labor markets restrained residential construction activity. Growth in business fixed investment slowed sharply in the third quarter, as supply bottlenecks-particularly for motor vehicles-weighed on business equipment spending and a limited availability of construction materials held back spending on nonresidential structures. Manufacturing output declined in September. Motor vehicle output stepped down further as semiconductor shortages continued to restrain production; in addition, Hurricane Ida resulted in prolonged plant outages in the petrochemical, refining, and plastic resins industries. Total real government purchases posted a small increase in the third quarter after having declined in the second quarter. Although real state and local purchases increased, the gain was largely offset by declines in both federal defense and nondefense purchases. international trade deficit widened in August, reflecting a moderate pace of import growth against a subdued pace of export growth. Real import growth was driven by increases in consumer goods and industrial supplies. Real export growth was held back by declines in capital goods, agricultural products, and automotive products. Bottlenecks in the global semiconductor industry continued to weigh on exports and imports of automotive products, and shipping congestion continued to restrain trade overall. Advance estimates for September suggested that goods imports rose while goods exports fell, pointing to a further widening of the trade deficit. The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimated that a drop in net exports subtracted substantially from real GDP growth in the third quarter. Foreign GDP growth slowed modestly in the third quarter, as supply chain disruptions and the resurgence of COVID-19 weighed on production, particularly in China and other emerging market economies (EMEs). In several EMEs, public health restrictions were reinstated, resulting in factory closures. Moreover, Chinese manufacturing output was curtailed by the rationing of electricity amid a coal shortage resulting in part from policies to lower carbon emissions. In contrast to EMEs, advanced foreign economies (AFEs) generally continued to recover at a solid pace in the third quarter, as the boost from the further reopening of high-contact services activity was only partially offset by the drag from bottlenecks, the spread of the virus, and, in some places, labor shortages. Twelve-month rates of inflation abroad continued to rise, reflecting further increases in energy prices, persistent pressures from supply bottlenecks, and past exchange rate depreciation in some EMEs. Over the intermeeting period, an increase in perceived inflation risks and an associated upward revision in the market-implied path of the federal funds rate contributed to increases in Treasury yields. Long-term sovereign yields in AFEs also increased notably. Despite these pressures, broad domestic equity indexes increased, on net, supported by strong earnings reports. Spreads of corporate bonds were little changed overall. Short-term funding markets were stable, while participation in the ON RRP facility increased further, to its highest level since the facility was put in place. Market-based financing conditions were accommodative, and bank lending standards eased for most loan categories. Market participants' views on the expected path for the federal funds rate over the next few years-implied by a straight read of overnight index swap quotes-rose substantially since the September FOMC meeting, apparently in response to perceived risks of higher inflation. Those risks also contributed to increases in Treasury yields, with 2-, 5-, and 10-year yields rising notably on net. Broad equity indexes increased, on net, over the intermeeting period. Perceptions of increased risks related to inflation were more than offset by a short-term resolution of the debt ceiling, a decrease in perceived risks related to the effect of the pandemic on the pace of the economic recovery, and stronger-than-expected third-quarter earnings. The VIX declined notably to near pre-pandemic levels. Spreads on corporate bonds were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period and remained at low levels. Spreads of municipal bonds narrowed slightly. Short-term funding markets were stable over the intermeeting period. The effective federal funds rate remained at 8 basis points throughout the period except on month-ends, while the SOFR averaged 5 basis points. Consistent with relatively low Treasury bill supply and abundant liquidity, participation in ON RRP operations increased from an average of $1.1 trillion over the previous intermeeting period to $1.4 trillion, reaching a new high of $1.6 trillion on the September quarter-end. In major foreign markets, sovereign yields rose notably over the intermeeting period, as did inflation compensation and market-implied measures of expected policy rates, amid sharp further increases in energy prices, concerns about higher inflation, and communications by some foreign central banks that were seen as signaling a faster removal of monetary policy accommodation. Market concerns about risks of a downturn in the Chinese real estate sector remained elevated, and inflows into funds investing in China slowed, but the effects on broader financial markets were limited. On balance, major foreign equity indexes increased moderately, and the broad dollar appreciated a touch. In domestic credit markets, financing conditions faced by nonfinancial firms in capital markets remained highly accommodative over the intermeeting period. Gross corporate bond issuance stayed strong in September and October. Gross leveraged loan issuance decreased slightly in September after its strong growth in August. Equity raised through traditional initial public offerings remained robust in September and October, while equity issuance through special purpose acquisition companies remained at the subdued levels seen in recent months. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loans declined notably in the third quarter amid ongoing forgiveness of Paycheck Protection Program loans. In the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported easing standards and terms, on net, for C&I loans over the third quarter. Banks also reported that demand for C&I loans was about unchanged over the third quarter after strengthening for the previous two quarters; on balance, loan demand was still weaker than before the pandemic. The credit quality of large nonfinancial corporations remained strong. The volume of credit rating upgrades for speculative-grade nonfinancial corporate bonds outpaced downgrades in September and October. Trailing default rates on corporate bonds and leveraged loans decreased from already low levels, while market indicators of future expected default rates remained benign. In the municipal bond market, financing conditions remained accommodative despite a modest increase in yields. Issuance of municipal debt was strong in September and October, and indicators of the credit quality of municipal debt remained healthy. Survey-based indicators suggested that small business owners became less pessimistic about their financial prospects, with the exception of owners in the educational services sector, for whom expectations deteriorated slightly. While loan originations to small businesses fell a bit, the results from the October SLOOS suggested that the decline appeared to reflect weak demand, particularly for small and very small firms. Commercial real estate loan balances on banks' books strengthened, and, in the October SLOOS, banks reported an easing of standards on such loans over the third quarter. Issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) remained robust, supported by spreads of agency CMBS generally at or below pre-pandemic levels. Delinquency rates on mortgages in CMBS pools continued to fall but remained elevated for CMBS backed by hotel and retail properties. In the residential mortgage market, financing conditions remained accommodative, particularly for borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria. In the October SLOOS, banks reported easing lending standards for almost all major mortgage categories. Mortgage rates increased modestly over the intermeeting period but did not rise as much as the 10-year Treasury yield. Indicators of mortgage originations for home purchases and refinancing remained fairly robust. The share of mortgages in forbearance continued to decline through October, and the rate of new transitions into delinquency stayed low by historical standards. Financing conditions for consumer credit remained accommodative for most borrowers, especially those with stronger credit scores. Lending standards for nonprime consumers in the credit card market continued to ease but remained slightly tighter than pre-pandemic levels. In the October SLOOS, banks reported easier standards for credit cards and auto loans over the third quarter. While demand for credit cards strengthened, auto loan growth slowed in response to low dealer inventories and a weakening of auto sales. The staff provided an update on indicators related to the stability of the financial system. The staff noted that asset valuations remained generally high relative to historical norms. In particular, bond and leveraged loan spreads remained narrow, while equity prices continued to increase, supported by strong earnings expectations, still-low Treasury yields, and high risk appetite. House prices rose rapidly, outpacing rents, but the staff did not see signs of loose mortgage underwriting standards or excessive mortgage credit growth that could potentially amplify a shock arising from falling house prices. For households, the level of consumer debt was largely unchanged on an inflation-adjusted basis, while delinquencies returned to pre-pandemic levels or below. For nonfinancial businesses, measures of leverage in the corporate sector fell over the second quarter and largely returned to pre-pandemic levels; in addition, the level of corporate debt became more sustainable as earnings increased and rates remained low. In the financial sector, the staff noted that banks were strongly capitalized, with high levels of stable funding and high-quality liquid assets. The mean level of gross hedge fund leverage was noteworthy and its distribution was skewed, with particularly high leverage among funds in the top decile. Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks remained at money funds and other mutual funds. In addition, funding risks were an emerging concern at entities issuing stablecoins, because they appeared to have structural maturity and liquidity transformation vulnerabilities similar to those for money funds but with considerably less transparency and an underdeveloped regulatory framework. The staff noted that the President's Working Group on Financial Markets was engaged in interagency work to address these risks. The projection for U.S. economic activity prepared by the staff for the November FOMC meeting was slightly weaker than the September projection. Incoming data suggested that the resolution of supply constraints was starting later and would be more gradual than previously assumed; even so, real GDP was expected to post a sizable gain over 2021 as a whole. In 2022, real GDP growth was expected to remain close to its 2021 pace, supported by the continued reopening of the economy and the resolution of supply constraints in most sectors. With the boost from these factors fading, real GDP growth was projected to step down noticeably in 2023 and to be close to potential output growth in 2023 and 2024. However, the level of real GDP was expected to remain well above potential throughout the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline to historically low levels. The staff's near-term outlook for inflation was revised up, as consumer food and energy prices had risen faster than expected and production bottlenecks and recent wage gains were seen as putting somewhat greater upward pressure on prices than had been anticipated. As a result, the 12-month change in PCE prices was projected to move up further relative to September's pace and to end the year well above 2 percent. Over the following two years, the boost to consumer prices caused by supply issues was expected to partly reverse, and resource utilization was projected to tighten further. PCE price inflation was therefore expected to step down to 2 percent in 2022 and to 1.9 percent in 2023 before edging back up to 2 percent in 2024. The staff continued to judge that the risks to the baseline projection for economic activity were skewed to the downside and that the risks around the inflation projection were skewed to the upside. In particular, the possibility of another sizable wave of COVID-19 cases in the winter was seen as an important source of downside risk to activity, while the possibility of more severe and persistent supply issues was viewed as an additional downside risk to activity and as an upside risk to inflation. Members agreed that the Committee should begin to slow the pace of its asset purchases at this meeting. the Committee decided to start reducing the monthly pace of its net asset purchases by $10 billion for Treasury securities and $5 billion for agency MBS. Members decided the postmeeting statement should state that the Committee judged that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases would likely be appropriate in subsequent months. Members agreed that the Federal Reserve was committed to using its full range of tools to support the U.S. economy in this challenging time. Members expected to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until those outcomes were achieved. The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. The Committee judges that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases will likely be appropriate each month. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m. Members also voted unanimously to approve establishment of the primary credit rate at the existing level of 0.25 percent, effective November 4, 2021.