Bank Rate maintained at 4% At its meeting ending on November 2025, the Monetary Policy Committee voted by a majority of 5-4 to maintain Bank Rate at 4%. Four members voted to reduce Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 3.75%. CPI inflation is judged to have peaked. Progress on underlying disinflation continues, supported by the still restrictive stance of monetary policy. Underlying disinflation is being underpinned by subdued economic growth and building slack in the labour market. The restrictiveness of monetary policy has fallen as Bank Rate has been reduced. If progress on disinflation continues, Bank Rate is likely to continue on a gradual downward path. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. Five members preferred to maintain Bank Rate at 4% at this meeting. Four members preferred a 0.25 percentage point reduction in Bank Rate at this meeting. The extent of further reductions will therefore depend on the evolution of the outlook for inflation. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be maintained at 4%. Five members voted in favour of the proposition. Four members voted against this proposition, preferring to reduce Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 3.75%. I judge that our policy stance continues to be restrictive and, based on my outlook, expect that a gradual removal of policy restraint will remain appropriate. I favour reducing restrictiveness now, with more easing likely to come, as insurance against depressed activity amid such an inflation undershoot. I place weight on our central projection and see risks around it as broadly balanced, although the downside risks are now more prominent for me relative to August, particularly as previous uncertainties around the disinflation process have reduced. Data indicate weakening demand and low confidence. The saving rate is more likely to remain elevated. Inflation has undershot expectations and should fall from here as temporary factors fade, while the labour market continues to soften. Peak unemployment is yet to come, may endure for some time, and our projections for it have drifted higher over successive forecasts. I find the mechanisms in the downside scenario plausible. Households' worries about the outlook may continue to keep the saving ratio elevated. Weak demand should continue to constrain firms' ability to raise prices. Labour market slack should lean against potential upside risks from inflation expectations. The strength of past wage growth is more likely to reflect post-pandemic churn rather than structural shifts.