Bank Rate maintained at 0.1% - September Monetary Policy Summary and minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee meeting. Interest rates and Bank Rate What is quantitative easing? Monetary Policy Summary and minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee meeting ending on September Published on September In the MPC's central projections in the August Monetary Policy Report, UK GDP was projected to recover further over the remainder of the year, with demand growth boosted by a waning impact from Covid-19 (Covid). There was projected to be a period of excess demand in the near term, before demand and supply were expected to return broadly to balance as demand growth slowed and constraints on supply eased. CPI inflation was projected to rise temporarily in the near term, to 4% in 2021 Q4, owing largely to developments in energy and goods prices. Conditioned on the market path for interest rates, CPI inflation was expected to fall back to close to the 2% target in the medium term. Since the August MPC meeting, the pace of recovery of global activity has showed signs of slowing. Against a backdrop of robust goods demand and continuing supply constraints, global inflationary pressures have remained strong and there are some signs that cost pressures may prove more persistent. Some financial market indicators of inflation expectations have risen somewhat, including in the United Kingdom. Bank staff have revised down their expectations for the level of UK GDP in 2021 Q3 by around 1% since the August Report, leaving the expected level of Q3 GDP around 2½% below its pre-Covid level. This downward revision in part reflects the emergence of some supply constraints on output. These have been evident in surveys showing historically lengthy supplier delivery times and backlogs of work, significant material and labour shortages in a number of sectors, and lower than normal levels of inventories. Momentum appears to have picked up in services-orientated sectors where output remains well below pre-Covid levels. Although official estimates of retail sales have weakened somewhat, other indicators of spending have generally remained at strong levels, as has consumer confidence. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate fell to 4.6% in the three months to July, slightly below the August Report forecast, while HMRC payroll data suggest that employee numbers (which include furloughed jobs) surpassed their 2019 Q4 level in August. The number of full and part-time furloughed jobs has continued to decline, but, on the basis of the most recent reported number of 1.7 million in July, to a materially lesser degree than estimated in the August Report. There have been few signs of any increase in redundancies, and the stock of vacancies has increased further, as have indicators of recruitment difficulties. Bank staff's estimate of underlying pay growth has picked up, to above its pre-pandemic rate. Uncertainty around the outlook for the labour market has therefore increased. Key questions include how the economy will adjust to the closure of the furlough scheme at the end of September; the extent, impact and duration of any change in unemployment; as well as the degree and persistence of any difficulties in matching available jobs with workers. The Committee will review these, along with other, developments as part of its forthcoming forecast round ahead of the November Monetary Policy Report, which will also include its periodic assessment of the supply side of the economy. Twelve-month CPI inflation rose from 2.0% in July to 3.2% in August, compared with the 3.0% figure expected in the August Report, and triggered the exchange of open letters between the Governor and the Chancellor of the Exchequer that is being published alongside this monetary policy announcement. Core inflation also rose to 3.1% in August, its highest rate since November 2011. While base effects accounted for the majority of the increase in CPI inflation between July and August, global cost pressures have continued to affect UK consumer goods prices. To a lesser degree, the reopening of the economy has led to a further increase in some consumer services prices. Indicators of households' medium-term inflation expectations have increased in recent months, with the Citi/YouGov five-to-ten year ahead measure at its highest level since 2013 in September. CPI inflation is expected to rise further in the near term, to slightly above 4% in 2021 Q4, owing largely to developments in energy and goods prices. The material rise in spot and forward wholesale gas prices since the August Report represents an upside risk to the MPC's inflation projection from April 2022. Most other indicators of cost pressures have remained elevated. The Committee's central expectation continues to be that current elevated global cost pressures will prove transitory. The MPC's remit is clear that the inflation target applies at all times, reflecting the primacy of price stability in the UK monetary policy framework. The framework also recognises that there will be occasions when inflation will depart from the target as a result of shocks and disturbances. In the recent unprecedented circumstances, the economy has been subject to very large shocks. Given the lag between changes in monetary policy and their effects on inflation, the Committee, in judging the appropriate policy stance, will as always focus on the medium-term prospects for inflation, rather than factors that are likely to be transient. At its previous meeting, the Committee judged that, should the economy evolve broadly in line with the central projections in the August Monetary Policy Report, some modest tightening of monetary policy over the forecast period was likely to be necessary to be consistent with meeting the inflation target sustainably in the medium term. Some developments during the intervening period appear to have strengthened that case, although considerable uncertainties remain. The Committee will be monitoring closely the incoming evidence regarding developments in the labour market, and particularly unemployment, wider measures of slack and underlying pay pressures; the extent to which businesses pass on wage and other cost increases, as well as medium-term inflation expectations. At this meeting, the Committee judged that the existing stance of monetary policy remained appropriate. Minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee meeting ending on September Before turning to its immediate policy decision, the Committee discussed: the international economy; monetary and financial conditions; demand and output; and supply, costs and prices. The global economy had continued to recover and UK-weighted global GDP growth in 2021 Q2 had been broadly in line with expectations at the time of the August Monetary Policy Report. Global activity was now expected to grow at a slightly slower pace in Q3, however, accounted for largely by weaker growth in the United States and China. There had also been some early evidence of a rotation in demand from goods to services, with the services PMIs above or in line with the manufacturing PMIs in the United States and the euro area. Against a backdrop of robust goods demand and continuing supply constraints, global inflationary pressures had remained strong and there were some signs that cost pressures might prove more persistent. Euro-area GDP had picked up by 2.2% in 2021 Q2, stronger than had been expected at the time of the August Report. The number of Covid cases appeared to have stabilised in most euro-area countries alongside a recovery in mobility and continued progress in vaccination programmes. Turning to Q3, the euro-area manufacturing PMI had remained well above its historical average, although it had fallen back to its weakest level in six months in August, with supply constraints affecting activity. The services PMI had also remained elevated. Bank staff now expected euro-area GDP growth in Q3 to be somewhat stronger than at the time of the August Report, but the level of GDP was expected to remain below its pre-Covid level. US GDP had risen by 1.6% in 2021 Q2, slightly weaker than had been expected at the time of the August Report. In the labour market, non-farm payrolls had increased by 235,000 in August, a much slower pace than the average of around 1 million jobs that had been added over the previous two months. The unemployment rate had nevertheless fallen to 5.2%. Although Covid cases had now started to fall across most US regions, they had remained elevated and the pace of the vaccination rollout had slowed considerably in recent months, as some southern states in particular had seen a lower take-up. But mobility and activity had held up in these states despite this, consistent with the link between cases and activity having weakened. Real personal consumption spending had fallen by 0.1% in July, with services spending continuing to recover relative to goods spending. The most recent high-frequency spending data had also pointed to some slowdown in consumer spending, although they had remained above their pre-Covid levels. Overall, US GDP in Q3 was expected to rise by somewhat less than at the time of the August Report. Chinese activity had slowed in July, with the re-imposition of localised lockdowns in response to outbreaks of Covid weighing on mobility. Official data and business surveys had pointed to a further moderation in activity in August, and GDP in 2021 Q3 was expected to rise by slightly less than at the time of the August Report. The recovery in other large Emerging Market Economies (EMEs) had been weaker than expected at the time of the August Report, accounted for particularly by the impact on GDP of the delta variant-driven second wave in India. Covid cases in these EMEs had generally fallen in recent months and there had been an increase in the pace of vaccination rollouts in some of these economies, although vaccination rates had still remained below the levels seen in most advanced economies. Indicators of economic mobility had generally held up across EMEs recently, even when Covid cases had risen. Global inflationary pressures had remained strong. Manufacturing input and output prices had continued to rise sharply, albeit at marginally slower rates. Oil prices had remained elevated compared to their pre-Covid levels, with the Brent oil spot price around $74 per barrel. Wholesale gas prices had risen sharply in Europe and Asia, driven by a combination of strong global demand and a range of supply constraints, including a low level of inventories after an unusually long and cold winter in Europe, as well as a lower-than-usual availability of wind energy in recent weeks. Non-energy commodity prices, in aggregate, had been largely unchanged. Shipping costs had continued to rise, with spot rates rising particularly sharply on certain routes. The strength in shipping costs had continued to reflect a range of factors, including strong global goods demand, as well as supply chain disruptions such as congestion and Covid-related closures at some large ports. Supplier delivery times had continued to rise. Supply conditions had appeared to have improved slightly in some sectors such as semiconductor production, although it would take some time for previous order backlogs to clear. Global containerised trade flows had continued to recover and world trade volumes had been 6.5% above pre-pandemic levels in 2021 Q2. In the euro area, twelve-month headline HICP inflation had risen to 3.0% in August, from 2.2% in July, stronger than had been expected at the time of the August Report. Core inflation had also risen to 1.6% from 0.7%, accounted for in part by a substantial increase in clothing and footwear inflation. US CPI inflation had remained elevated in August, although it had eased slightly to 5.3% in August from a 13-year high of 5.4% in June and July. Headline PCE inflation had picked up a little further to 4.2% in July, and core PCE inflation had remained unchanged at 3.6%. The rise in headline inflation had primarily been driven by sectors that were sensitive to the reopening of the US economy. But there had been some signs that price pressures in other sectors were easing. The Labour Force Survey (LFS) unemployment rate had fallen to 4.6% in the three months to July, slightly below the expectations in the August Monetary Policy Report. LFS employment had grown by 0.6% in the three months to July, slightly above expectations at the time of the August Report. HMRC payroll data suggested that employee numbers had increased by 241,000 in August and had surpassed their 2019 Q4 level, although these data were prone to revision. Indicators of redundancies had remained subdued in the run-up to the end of the CJRS. The stock of job vacancies had risen above 1 million in August, surpassing the previous record set in July. Private-sector regular Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) had risen by 7.8% in the three months to July on a year earlier, compared to 8.4% in the three months to June. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen from 2.0% in July to 3.2% in August. Core inflation had also risen from 1.8% in July to 3.1% in August, its highest rate since November 2011. The Committee discussed the near-term outlook for consumer prices. CPI inflation was expected to rise further temporarily, to slightly above 4% in 2021 Q4, slightly higher than the projection in the August Report. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. Bank staff had revised down their expectations for the level of UK GDP in 2021 Q3 by around 1% since the August Report, leaving the expected level of Q3 GDP around 2½% below its pre-Covid level. The Labour Force Survey unemployment rate had fallen to 4.6% in the three months to July, slightly below the August Report forecast, while HMRC payroll data suggested that employee numbers (which included furloughed jobs) had surpassed their 2019 Q4 level in August. Twelve-month CPI inflation had risen from 2.0% in July to 3.2% in August, compared with the 3.0% figure expected in the August Report, and had triggered the exchange of open letters between the Governor and the Chancellor of the Exchequer that was being published alongside this monetary policy announcement. CPI inflation was expected to rise further in the near term, to slightly above 4% in 2021 Q4, owing largely to developments in energy and goods prices. The MPC had, since the second half of 2020, had policy guidance in place specifying that it did not intend to tighten monetary policy at least until there was clear evidence that significant progress was being made in eliminating spare capacity and achieving the 2% inflation target sustainably. At this meeting, most members of the Committee judged that the existing stance of monetary policy, which included the previously announced £150 billion increase in the target stock of purchased assets, remained appropriate. The Committee would review these, along with other, developments as part of its forthcoming forecast round ahead of the November Monetary Policy Report, which would also include its periodic assessment of the supply side of the economy. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the propositions that: Bank Rate should be maintained at 0.1%; Seven members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann, Huw Pill and Silvana Tenreyro) voted in favour of the third proposition. Two members (Dave Ramsden and Michael Saunders) voted against this proposition, preferring to reduce the target for the stock of UK government bond purchases from £875 billion to £840 billion.