Bank Rate maintained at 4.75% - December At its meeting ending on December 2024, the MPC voted by a majority of 6-3 to maintain Bank Rate at 4.75%. The Committee voted to maintain Bank Rate at 4.75%. Monetary policy has been guided by the need to squeeze remaining inflationary pressures out of the economy to achieve the 2% target both in a timely manner and on a lasting basis. The Committee continues to monitor closely the risks of inflation persistence and will assess the extent to which the evolving evidence is consistent with more constrained supply, which could sustain inflationary pressures, or with weaker demand, which could lead to the emergence of spare capacity in the economy and push down inflation. Annual private sector regular average weekly earnings growth picked up quite sharply in the three months to October, but has tended to be more volatile than other wage indicators. The latest Agents' intelligence suggests that average pay settlements in 2025 will be within a range of 3 to 4%. Most indicators of UK near-term activity have declined. The Committee continues to consider a range of cases for how the past global shocks that drove up inflation may unwind, and therefore how persistent domestic inflationary pressures may be. The MPC is also monitoring the impact on growth and inflationary pressures from the measures announced in the Autumn Budget, and from geopolitical tensions and trade policy uncertainty. The Committee will decide the appropriate degree of monetary policy restrictiveness at each meeting. UK-weighted global GDP was estimated to have grown by 0.5% in 2024 Q3, marginally higher than the projection in the November Monetary Policy Report. On balance, the risks around the near-term outlook for activity in a number of advanced economies remained to the downside. The euro-area labour market had remained tight but had continued to normalise, while the labour market in the United States had remained close to balance. Indicators of pay growth had generally cooled in the euro area, albeit with an increase in negotiated wage growth in 2024 Q3 that was attributable largely to one-off payments in Germany. Headline consumer price inflation in advanced economies had increased slightly, close to market expectations. Since the MPC's November meeting, European wholesale gas prices had initially increased sharply, owing to colder weather, strong demand from Asia and disruption in the provision of Russian-owned gas supplies. The Committee discussed risks to global growth and inflation stemming from geopolitical tensions and trade policy uncertainty, with indicators of the latter having increased materially. Market-implied paths for policy rates in the United States and euro area had ended the period since the MPC's previous meeting a little lower. In the United Kingdom, near-term market expectations for Bank Rate had increased since the MPC's previous meeting, predominantly reflecting stronger-than-expected wage data. Housing market activity had continued to pick up, with mortgage approvals for house purchase having risen back to their pre-pandemic average in October. Household broad money balances had grown unusually strongly in October. UK GDP had risen by 0.1% in 2024 Q3, slightly weaker than the 0.2% that had been expected in the November Monetary Policy Report. GDP had declined by 0.1% in October after a similar-sized fall in September. Most indicators of near-term activity had weakened since the previous MPC meeting. Bank staff now expected zero GDP growth in 2024 Q4, weaker than the 0.3% that had been incorporated in the November Report. The Committee discussed the extent to which recent developments in output could reflect the weakness of both demand and supply, such that there might be fewer implications for the margin of spare capacity in the economy and thus domestic inflationary pressures. Annual growth in private sector regular average weekly earnings (AWE) had risen from 4.8% in the three months to August to 5.4% in the three months to October. The signal from most indicators following the announced increases in the National Living Wage (NLW) and employer National Insurance contributions tended to corroborate the view that, supported by diminishing churn, easing recruitment difficulties and an ongoing loosening of the labour market, annual private sector wage growth would slow over the policy-relevant horizon. Twelve-month CPI inflation had increased to 2.6% in November from 1.7% in September. Core CPI inflation had increased to 3.5%. Annual services price inflation had been 5.0% in November, little changed from its rate in October and September. In the near term, headline CPI inflation was expected to continue to rise slightly. The latest increases in inflation expectations might reflect greater attentiveness among households to cost-of-living increases, such as the reduction in winter fuel payments, higher bus fares and vehicle excise duty, successive increases in the Ofgem price cap in October and January, and higher food prices. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. Monetary policy had been guided by the need to squeeze remaining inflationary pressures out of the economy to achieve the 2% target both in a timely manner and on a lasting basis. As set out in the November Monetary Policy Report, the Committee's deliberations had been supported by the consideration of a range of cases that could impact the evolution of inflation persistence. The MPC was also considering the impact on growth and inflationary pressures from the measures announced in the Autumn Budget, and from geopolitical tensions and trade policy uncertainty. The Committee noted that indicators of trade policy uncertainty had increased materially, but that the magnitude and the direction of the impact of any such policies on UK inflation was at present unclear. Since the MPC's previous meeting, most indicators of UK near-term activity had declined. The number of job vacancies had continued to fall, albeit at a slower pace than in 2023. Annual private sector regular AWE growth had picked up quite sharply in the three months to October, to 5.4%, which was ½ of a percentage point stronger than had been expected in the November Report. Twelve-month CPI inflation had increased to 2.6% in November from 1.7% in September, slightly higher than previous expectations. At this meeting, six members preferred to maintain Bank Rate at 4.75%. Three members preferred a 0.25 percentage point reduction in Bank Rate at this meeting. The Committee continued to monitor closely the risks of inflation persistence and would assess the extent to which the evolving evidence was consistent with more constrained supply, which could sustain inflationary pressures, or with weaker demand, which could lead to the emergence of spare capacity in the economy and push down inflation. A gradual approach to removing monetary policy restraint remained appropriate. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be maintained at 4.75%. Six members (Andrew Bailey, Sarah Breeden, Megan Greene, Clare Lombardelli, Catherine L Mann and Huw Pill) voted in favour of the proposition.