Bank Rate increased to 1.25% - June In view of continuing signs of robust cost and price pressures, including the current tightness of the labour market, and the risk that those pressures become more persistent, the Committee voted to increase Bank Rate by 0.25 percentage points, to 1.25%, at this meeting. CPI inflation was expected to average slightly over 10% at its peak in 2022 Q4. CPI inflation is expected to be over 9% during the next few months and to rise to slightly above 11% in October. The MPC will take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The risks to the inflation projection were judged to be skewed to the upside at these points. Consumer confidence has fallen further, but other indicators of household spending appear to have held up. Twelve-month CPI inflation rose from 7.0% in March to 9.0% in April, close to expectations at the time of the May Report. The increase in October reflects higher projected household energy prices following a prospective additional large increase in the Ofgem price cap. The Committee discussed the strength of UK inflation from a cross-country perspective. The MPC sets monetary policy to meet the 2% inflation target, and in a way that helps to sustain growth and employment. In view of continuing signs of robust cost and price pressures, including the current tightness of the labour market, and the risk that those pressures became more persistent, all members of the Committee judged that an increase in Bank Rate was warranted at this meeting. Six members of the Committee judged that a further 0.25 percentage point increase in Bank Rate, to 1.25%, was warranted at this meeting. Three members preferred a 0.5 percentage point increase in Bank Rate at this meeting. The MPC would take the actions necessary to return inflation to the 2% target sustainably in the medium term, in line with its remit. The scale, pace and timing of any further increases in Bank Rate would reflect the Committee's assessment of the economic outlook and inflationary pressures. The Chair invited the Committee to vote on the proposition that: Bank Rate should be increased by 0.25 percentage points, to 1.25%. Six members (Andrew Bailey, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Huw Pill, Dave Ramsden and Silvana Tenreyro) voted in favour of the proposition. Three members (Jonathan Haskel, Catherine L Mann and Michael Saunders) voted against the proposition, preferring to increase Bank Rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 1.5%.