A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, April 27, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:26 p.m., and on Friday, April 28, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on March 9 and 10, 2023, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for conduct of yield curve control decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.5 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. With these market operations, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent. Since the previous meeting, the shape of the JGB yield curve had been generally smooth, as interest rates had declined, mainly at medium- to long-term and super-long-term maturities. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. Furthermore, with a view to meeting a wider range of financing needs, the Bank had conducted fund-provisioning under the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral without setting an upper limit. Meanwhile, as a coordinated international action, the central banks offering U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations -- including the Bank of Japan -- increased the frequency of 7-day maturity operations from weekly to daily, starting from March 20. Thereafter, on April 25, they decided to revert the frequency to weekly from May, in view of the improvements in U.S. dollar funding conditions and the low demand at U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.005 to minus 0.033 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.088 to minus 0.328 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat over the intermeeting period. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had declined somewhat. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against the U.S. dollar, mainly on the back of a narrowing of the yield differential between Japan and the United States. Meanwhile, the yen had depreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. In China, the economy had picked up, mainly in the services industry, as there continued to be moves toward normalization of economic activity. In Europe, production had turned upward in the manufacturing industry, with concern over energy supply easing. Advanced economies, however, remained under downward pressure stemming from elevated inflation and policy interest rate hikes. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy remained on a slowing trend, in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, although firmness had been seen in private consumption. European economies had slowed moderately despite concern over energy supply easing, as they continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. The Chinese economy had picked up, as moves toward normalization of economic activity had been seen. In emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, the pace of improvement had slowed on the whole; although domestic demand continued to improve moderately in these economies, exports had slowed, particularly of IT-related goods. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being, amid inflationary pressure persisting on a global basis and continued policy interest rate hikes by central banks, and also with the situation surrounding Ukraine weighing on economic activity. Overseas economies were expected to pick up in steps thereafter as inflationary pressure gradually subsided and the normalization of economic activity in China progressed. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in global inflationary pressure, the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine, and developments in the Chinese economy. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in the United States and Europe had declined, as the market-implied path for policy rates had shifted downward, mainly reflecting issues surrounding some financial institutions in these economies. As for stock prices in advanced economies over the intermeeting period, those in the United States had risen and those in Europe were almost unchanged. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had appreciated on the back of a decline in U.S. interest rates. Crude oil prices had been more or less flat. Japan's economy had picked up, despite being affected by factors such as past high commodity prices. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover moderately toward around the middle of fiscal 2023, supported by factors such as the materialization of pent-up demand, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from past high commodity prices and the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Regarding the outlook, although exports and production were projected to be affected by such slowdown, they were likely to be more or less flat toward around the middle of fiscal 2023, due to factors such as the waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Thereafter, they were likely to return to an uptrend with overseas economies picking up. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business sentiment was more or less unchanged. Business fixed investment had increased moderately. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, such investment was expected to continue increasing, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions. Private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by price rises. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased moderately for the October-December quarter of 2022, partly because the government's domestic travel discount program had made a positive contribution. It had then increased slightly for the January-February period of 2023 relative to the October-December quarter. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption seemed to have continued on a moderate uptrend since March 2023, despite being affected by price rises. This was mainly because the impact of COVID-19 had waned further and improvement in the income situation had started to become more evident, partly in light of the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Regarding the outlook, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue increasing moderately, partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions, with nominal employee income continuing to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole. Regarding the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey, that of regular employees had followed a moderate uptrend, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees had also risen moderately, mainly in the face-to-face services industry, as well as the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry. Total cash earnings per employee had increased moderately, reflecting a pick-up in overall economic activity. Corporate managers' responses to the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations revealed to date showed that wage increases, including regular seniority-based ones, had risen significantly from around 2 percent for 2022 to the range of 3.5-4.0 percent for 2023, a level last seen in 1993. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue increasing in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. In real terms, the year-on-year rate of change in employee income was projected to gradually turn positive toward the middle of fiscal 2023, as inflation declined and nominal employee income improved. As for prices, commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole, albeit with variation across items. With the impact of past high commodity prices and yen depreciation gradually waning, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had started to decline slightly, partly due to the effects of the government's measures to reduce the burden of higher electricity and gas charges. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been at around 3 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by a rise in import prices. Inflation expectations were more or less unchanged after rising. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was expected to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023, with a waning of the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the rise in import prices. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds had risen moderately as demand for working capital had increased in reflection of a pick-up in economic activity and past high raw material costs. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. In the corporate bond market, although a shortening of issuance maturities had been observed, issuance conditions had been favorable on the whole, as the widening of issuance spreads had paused. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had decelerated, registering around 3 percent. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Although weakness remained in some segments, firms' financial positions had been at improved levels on the whole, supported by a pick-up in economic activity. The year-on-year rate of decline in the monetary base had decelerated. This was because the Bank's JGB purchases had increased, while the amount outstanding of funds provided through the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing had declined. The rate of change in the money stock had been at around 2.5 percent. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to an improvement in net interest income on the back of a rise in loans outstanding and to an increase in income from fees and commissions, although realized gains/losses on securities holdings had deteriorated, reflecting the rise in overseas interest rates. Their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had been more or less flat; although net interest income and net non-interest income had increased, realized gains/losses on securities holdings had deteriorated, reflecting the rise in overseas interest rates. Their credit costs had been at low levels. Meanwhile, the impact of heightened uncertainty about the banking sector in the United States and Europe on Japan's financial system seemed to be limited. All types of Japanese banks maintained sufficient capital. In terms of yen funding, they had secured stable funding bases, especially through retail deposits. As for their foreign currency funding, they had increased the share of funding through deposits as well as medium- to long-term foreign exchange and currency swaps, for example, to stabilize their funding bases; thus, there were no particular disruptions to their recent funding. In sum, Japanese banks had both sufficient capital bases and stable funding bases to perform financial intermediation activities appropriately. With regard to the financial cycle, of the Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, two -- including one indicating the amount of financial institutions' credit relative to real economic activity -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Nevertheless, this was mainly due to firms' behavior aimed at securing ample cash reserves, and therefore did not signal any overheating of financial activities. However, it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether the amount of credit extended by financial institutions would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. The accumulated impact of policy interest rate hikes to date has started to spread to the financial system side, such as to financial institutions' lending stance and the credit market. Members shared the view that Japan's economy had picked up, despite being affected by factors such as past high commodity prices. Members shared the recognition that firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels and that the environment for external funding had been favorable on the whole. Members agreed that private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by price rises. Many members pointed out that wages were projected to be raised by more than expected in the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had recently been above 2 percent but was highly likely to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023. Members shared the recognition that, compared with the projections in the January Outlook Report, the projected rates of increase in the CPI for fiscal 2023 and 2024 were somewhat higher, mainly due to a higher projection for wages. Members concurred that there were extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economy, including developments in overseas economic activity and prices as well as developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine and in commodity prices. Members expressed the view that the year-on-year rate of increase was projected to be around 2.5 percent for fiscal 2023 and in the range of 1.5-2.0 percent for fiscal 2024 and 2025, considering fluctuations in energy prices. Members discussed the risks to economic activity and prices related to developments in overseas economic activity and prices, as well as financial market trends. Members agreed that risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for fiscal 2023 but were generally balanced thereafter. Members concurred that risks to prices were skewed to the upside for fiscal 2023 but were skewed to the downside for fiscal 2025. Members agreed that, given developments in economic activity and prices, it was important to continue with the current monetary easing. Members pointed out that in order to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable manner, this needed to be accompanied by wage increases. Members shared the recognition that long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent and agreed that there was no need to revise the conduct of yield curve control. Members expressed the opinion that, considering the lessening impact of COVID-19, it might be appropriate to revise the description of the future conduct of monetary policy. Members pointed out that a broad-perspective review of monetary policy over the past 25 years might provide useful insights for the future conduct of monetary policy. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will maintain the amount outstanding of CP at about 2 trillion yen. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board decided the text of 'The Bank's View' by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of March 9 and 10, 2023, for release on May 8. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner.