A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, December 17, 2020, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:59 p.m., and on Friday, December 18, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on October 28 and 29, 2020, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted purchases of CP and corporate bonds and the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) to support financing, mainly of firms, under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). In addition, with a view to maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had provided ample funds flexibly, mainly through purchases of JGBs and the conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and had actively purchased exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.02 to minus 0.04 percent. Overnight general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.07 to minus 0.10 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. The Nikkei Stock Average had risen, reflecting that market sentiment had improved, partly due to the end of the presidential and Congressional elections in the United States and progress in the development of vaccines for COVID-19. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. As for liquidity in the JGB market, a comparison of the November Bond Market Survey with the August survey showed that the diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning (the proportion of institutions responding that bond market functioning was "high" minus the proportion of those responding that it was "low") had been more or less flat. In the foreign exchange market, where market sentiment had improved and the U.S. dollar had been depreciating, the yen had been appreciating slightly against the dollar while depreciating against the euro. Overseas economies had picked up, although the impact of a resurgence of COVID-19 had been seen in part. Since the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had increased rapidly, European economies had reinstated public health measures, such as restrictions on going outside and on restaurant and retail store businesses in particular. However, even in countries such as the United Kingdom and France, where relatively strict measures had been introduced, economic activities, mainly in the manufacturing and construction industries, had been maintained, unlike in early spring 2020, and such measures had been eased gradually since the end of November with the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 decreasing. Under these circumstances, the decline in economic activity in Europe had been small compared with that in early spring and the impact had been concentrated in the face-to-face services industry. In addition, in the United States, where the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had also increased rapidly, so far only some states had tightened their public health measures and no significant change had been observed in the improving trend in the overall economy. As mentioned earlier, each country had responded to the spread of COVID-19 in consideration of sustaining economic activity. In this situation, from a global perspective, business sentiment continued to improve clearly both in the manufacturing and services industries, and production of the manufacturing industry and trade volume had started to recover to the pre-pandemic levels. As for the outlook, overseas economies were likely to improve, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken by each country and region. That said, it was highly likely that the pace of improvement would be only moderate and uneven for the time being, due in part to the impact of the resurgence of COVID-19 that was primarily seen in the United States and Europe. In addition, there remained extremely high uncertainties, mainly over the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had picked up. Private consumption also had picked up, mainly for goods consumption, due in part to the government's measures implemented so far to compensate for the decline in household income and the materialization of pent-up demand, although services consumption remained at a low level, with the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 continuing to rise. Housing investment had increased clearly, with mortgage rates staying at record low levels. As for the corporate sector, business sentiment continued to improve and production had picked up. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had started to pick up, mainly for machinery investment, although construction investment continued to decline. The European economy had been pushed down, mainly for the services industry, reflecting the resurgence of COVID-19. In the euro area, as for private consumption, goods consumption remained firm but services consumption seemed to have been pushed down recently due to a tightening of public health measures. With regard to the corporate sector, although business sentiment in the services industry had deteriorated due to the resurgence of COVID-19, that in the manufacturing industry continued to improve, and exports and production had also picked up. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had been depressed on the whole, mainly reflecting a decline in corporate profits, but it had picked up in part. The Chinese economy continued to recover. Exports had increased. Private consumption had increased, mainly owing to an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to increase, given, for example, that investment such as that related to public works had increased, reflecting the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies, and that such policy effects had also spread to the manufacturing industry. Under these circumstances, production also continued to increase. Emerging economies other than China had picked up from a state of depression owing to progress in the resumption of economic activities. The NIEs and the ASEAN countries had seen a pick-up in economic activity, mainly for exports, although domestic demand remained depressed in some economies due to the impact of COVID-19. In India and Brazil, a pick-up had been widely observed on the whole with economic activities continuing to resume, although the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 remained at a high level. The Russian economy had been pushed down due to the resurgence of COVID-19. With respect to overseas financial markets, in advanced economies, U.S. and European stock prices as well as U.S. long-term interest rates had risen, mainly reflecting that uncertainty over the transition of the U.S. administration had eased and expectations for early distribution of highly effective vaccines had increased. In the foreign exchange market, while the U.S. dollar had depreciated, currencies in emerging economies had appreciated on the whole. Crude oil prices had increased, mainly on the back of expectations for economic recovery that reflected progress made in the development of vaccines. Japan's economy had picked up, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to continue picking up, supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures. However, the pace of the pick-up was expected to be only moderate for the time being while downward pressure stemming from COVID-19 continued, mainly on face-to-face services. Exports and industrial production continued to increase on the back of a pick-up in overseas economies. Looking at real exports by goods, exports of automobile-related goods continued to increase clearly, reflecting a recovery in automobile sales in the United States, Europe, and China that was supported by the materialization of pent-up demand. With exports of parts for data centers, parts related to personal computers, and parts for on-board equipment for motor vehicles continuing to rise, IT-related exports kept increasing, which also reflected a rise in demand for parts related to new models of smartphones. Exports of capital goods had turned to a pick-up due to a global recovery in production activity and in demand for business fixed investment, mainly for machinery investment. As for the outlook, exports and production were likely to continue their increasing trend, mainly supported by the global recovery in demand for business fixed investment and firm digital-related demand, although the pace of increase was expected to decelerate due to a peaking-out of pent-up demand for automobile-related goods. Private consumption had picked up gradually on the whole, although consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations, remained at a low level. As for goods consumption, automobile sales had increased since June 2020 and recently had been clearly above the levels seen around March. Sales of household electrical appliances remained firm, reflecting people spending more time at home, but the rate of increase had decelerated, partly due to a peaking-out of the positive effects of the provision of special cash payments. Food and daily necessities, for example, remained firm on the back of stay-at-home consumption, although their rates of increase had decelerated somewhat compared to a while ago. Services consumption had gradually picked up from the bottom hit in the April-May period, but its level remained low, mainly for face-to-face services. On a monthly basis, it remained susceptible to the situation regarding COVID-19; the pick-up in services consumption had leveled off due to an increase in the number of confirmed cases in summer, but had resumed in the September-October period, reflecting confirmed cases reaching a plateau and the effects of the "Go To" campaign. Dining-out in October had offset about 80 percent of the decline brought about by COVID-19, partly due to the demand-stimulating effects of the "Go To Travel" and "Go To Eat" campaigns since summer. As for travel, there had been almost no overseas travel as travel restrictions remained in place; on the other hand, domestic travel had shown a relatively marked pick-up, partly because the "Go To Travel" campaign had been expanded to include trips to and from Tokyo in October. However, according to interviews with firms and other relevant information, services consumption seemed to have shown growing signs of deceleration since mid-November, reflecting the resurgence of COVID-19. In the outlook, private consumption was likely to continue picking up as a trend. That said, while vigilance against the spread of COVID-19 continued, the pace of the pick-up was highly likely to be quite moderate for the time being. With the continuing impact of COVID-19, the employment and income situation had been weak. As for the employment situation, according to the Labour Force Survey, the year-on-year rate of change in the number of employed persons remained in the range of minus 1.0 to minus 1.5 percent, mainly due to a decrease in non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. The year-on-year rate of change in the number of hours worked per employee continued to register relatively large negative growth, mainly in the accommodations as well as eating and drinking services industry, but the rate of change had been on an increasing trend in negative territory on the whole. With regard to labor market conditions, the active job openings-to-applicants ratio had stopped declining, mainly due to a pick-up in the number of job openings over the past few months. Looking at the employment conditions DI in the (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan), the net "insufficient" had narrowed significantly in the June 2020 survey and then had expanded again in the December survey, reflecting a pick-up in economic activity. The labor force participation rate had increased moderately because those who had been out of the labor market in the April-June quarter had been returning to it. The unemployment rate had been on a moderate uptrend. Total cash earnings had declined, mainly due to a decrease in non-scheduled cash earnings. Employee income was projected to continue declining clearly for the time being, while lagging somewhat behind the past worsening of business performance. Corporate profits and business sentiment had deteriorated significantly but subsequently had improved gradually. Looking at the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry, Quarterly, the ratio of current profits to sales for the July-September quarter had picked up with economic activity resuming. The business conditions DI for all industries and enterprises in the December had improved for the second consecutive quarter. Although the DI's level remained clearly below that in the March survey, the net "unfavorable" level had narrowed by about half compared with that in the June survey. Business fixed investment had been on a declining trend. While the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- had turned to a pick-up, reflecting increases in exports and production, private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- continued to be on a moderate declining trend, partly due to large-scale Olympic Games-related construction having almost reached completion. Machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment -- had picked up, mainly for the manufacturing industry. On the other hand, construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment -- continued to be on a declining trend. This was largely attributable to a decrease in construction of stores and accommodation facilities, mainly in the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industry, which had been affected by COVID-19. Regarding figures for the December surveys, the business fixed investment plan for fiscal 2020 showed negative growth on a year-on-year basis, albeit marginally, for the first time since fiscal 2009. Within such plan, the year-on-year rate of change in software investment was expected to remain positive, reflecting firm developments in digital-related investment, although it had been revised downward from that in the September. As for the outlook, business fixed investment was expected to pick up gradually on the whole due to the increase in machinery investment by the manufacturing industry that reflected recoveries in exports and production, although construction investment by the services industry was projected to remain weak. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been negative, mainly affected by COVID-19, the past decline in crude oil prices, and the "Go To Travel" campaign. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was also likely to be negative for the time being. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so, as seen in weakness in firms' financial positions. Inflation expectations had weakened somewhat. Firms' demand for funds that mainly reflected a decline in sales and a rise in precautionary demand, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19, remained at a high level, although an increase in demand by large firms in particular had paused. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 6 percent. That in the amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at a relatively high level that exceeded 10 percent, although the rate had decelerated compared to a while ago. Thus, the environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had also been at a low level. However, although firms' financial positions had improved moderately, they remained weak, mainly reflecting a decline in sales due to the impact of COVID-19. With the pace of economic improvement being moderate, corporate financing was likely to remain under stress. The year-on-year rate of increase in the monetary base had been at around 16.5 percent, and that in the money stock had been at around 9 percent. Members view that the financial environment has been accommodative on the whole, but that this is not the case for corporate financing. Members agreed that overseas economies had picked up on the whole, although the impact of the resurgence of COVID-19 had been seen in part. Members concurred that Japan's economy had picked up, although it remained under the severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI had been negative, mainly affected by COVID-19, the past decline in crude oil prices, and the 'Go To Travel' campaign. Members recognize that economic activity and prices are projected to remain under downward pressure due to the impact of COVID-19. Members agreed that the funding environment for financial institutions had been accommodative, but that this remained weak for corporate financing. Members agreed that corporate financing was likely to remain under stress due to the ongoing impact of COVID-19. Members recognize that economic activity and prices are projected to remain under downward pressure due to the impact of COVID-19. Members discussed monetary policy based on the recognition that it was necessary for the Bank to support the economy and thereby achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, given that economic activity and prices were projected to remain under downward pressure for a prolonged period due to the impact of COVID-19. Members shared the view that the three monetary easing measures that were currently implemented to respond to COVID-19 had been exerting their effects. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to decide to extend the duration of the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) and continue to support financing, mainly of firms. The staff explained that the Bank could extend the duration of the Special Program by 6 months until the end of September 2021. Members agreed that it was appropriate to conduct an assessment for further effective and sustainable monetary easing, with a view to achieving the price stability target of 2 percent. The Policy Board decided to apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around 0 percent. Members voted unanimously to approve the proposal on the guideline for asset purchases. Members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to purchase ETFs and J-REITs so that their amounts outstanding would increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. It was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to responding to an increase in downward pressure on prices and encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. the Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2 trillion yen and about 3 trillion yen, respectively. Members voted unanimously to approve "Amendment to 'Principal Terms and Conditions of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)," which represented the aforementioned staff reports. Kataoka expressed the opinion that, in order to avoid Japan's economy returning to deflation, further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of October 28 and 29, 2020, for release on December 23. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. the yields may move upward and downward to some extent mainly depending on developments in economic activity and prices. the Bank judged that there is no need to change it. the Bank will consider further extension of the program if necessary. the Bank will extend the duration of additional purchases of CP and corporate bonds by 6 months until the end of September 2021. the Bank will remove the upper limit of funds it provides to each eligible counterparty (i.e., 100 billion yen) against loans that private financial institutions make on their own, which are part of eligible loans under this operation. the Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. the Bank will continue with "Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control," aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. the Bank will closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. the Bank will assess various measures conducted under this framework and make public its findings, likely at the March 2021 MPM. the Bank will conduct an assessment for further effective and sustainable monetary easing, with a view to supporting the economy and thereby achieving the price stability target of 2 percent. the Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) active purchases of ETFs and J-REITs.