A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, March 16, 2020, from 12:00 p.m. In view of these circumstances, it was appropriate for the Bank to bring forward the Monetary Policy Meeting, which was originally scheduled to be held on March 18 and 19, and promptly discuss possible monetary policy measures. The chairman then proposed that the March 18 and 19 meeting be brought forward, and that it proceed with the intention of concluding within a day. The proposal was unanimously approved by the Policy Board members. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on January 20 and 21, 2020, the Bank had been providing funds through purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) and other measures. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. Meanwhile, in view of developments in financial markets, the Bank had appropriately implemented purchases of assets, including exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and CP, in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.07 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had declined. The Nikkei Stock Average had dropped significantly amid increasing uncertainties over the future state of the economy due to the spread of COVID-19, and recently was moving at around 17,000 yen. Long-term interest rates had been moving at around 0 percent, but their fluctuations had been somewhat large in line with developments in U.S. and European long-term interest rates. The stock and government bond markets had been unstable, as seen, for example, in the increase in volatility. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been appreciating against the U.S. dollar and the euro, albeit with large fluctuations. Overseas economies had recently shown clear signs of a slowdown due mainly to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. With regard to the outlook, although these signs were expected to remain for the time being, overseas economies were likely to return to a stable growth path thereafter, partly backed by the materialization of the effects of macroeconomic policies in each country, as the spread of the disease would recede. Nevertheless, there had been significant uncertainties over the size and the persistence of the impact of the spread of COVID-19 on the global economy, and if the disease were to spread even more widely or for a longer period, the impact on the economy would accordingly be significant. While the number of newly confirmed COVID-19 cases in China decreased and appeared to have reached a plateau, the disease had been spreading outside China, as seen in a marked increase in the number of cases in Europe and the United States. Under these circumstances, the economic impact of the disease also had been evident initially in China, but was gradually spreading to other countries. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the Chinese economy was under strong downward pressure in terms of both supply and demand. Given the strict movement restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of the disease, labor force recovery after the Lunar New Year holidays had been sluggish. The Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for February, for both manufacturing and nonmanufacturing, had declined significantly. However, high-frequency data had suggested that economic activity had recently been picking up gradually as the number of newly confirmed COVID-19 cases decreased and appeared to have reached a plateau. economy had continued to expand moderately, driven by private consumption, but the impact of COVID-19 had started to be observed. The weekly consumer confidence index had been declining, and the effects on industries related to travel and tourism had already been seen -- for example, in a decrease in the number of reservations for international flights and in a decline in revenues at Broadway theaters. Meanwhile, the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) index for manufacturing for February had also deteriorated. Regarding the European economy, signs of a slowdown recently seemed to have become more evident amid continued adjustments in the manufacturing sector. The number of newly confirmed COVID-19 cases in the euro area had recently surged. Reservations for flights to and vacation rentals in Europe had decreased considerably. Downward pressure on private consumption seemed to have been increasing, reflecting strict restrictions in each country on people's movement and going outside. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. and European stock prices and long-term interest rates had declined significantly, triggered by the outbreak of COVID-19 in Europe and the United States. Crude oil prices had fallen substantially, due to declining demand reflecting the outbreak of COVID-19 and to concern over a possible deterioration of supply and demand conditions reflecting disagreement over oil-production cuts. Volatility had increased significantly in a wide range of financial markets as risk aversion and a decline in market functioning had been observed. This seemed to reflect the following factors: there had been extremely significant uncertainties over the consequences and the effects of the outbreak of COVID-19; fiscal and monetary policies that had been introduced in rapid succession by each country had led to sudden repricing in financial markets; and trading and execution desks were understaffed as market participants had started to work split shifts. Neither an inflow of funds to government bonds or gold nor an appreciation of the yen had been seen recently, despite the deterioration of risk appetite. As a background to this, some market participants had pointed out that investors had become more eager to move their funds back to the United States and hoard cash immediately. Regarding conditions in U.S. dollar funding markets, U.S. dollar Libor-OIS spreads had been widening. dollar funding premium in the dollar-yen swap markets had also been increasing, as there had been moves to secure ample on-hand liquidity in U.S. Given this situation, central banks in advanced economies had decided earlier today to enhance U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations through coordinated action. Japan's economic activity had been weak recently due mainly to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19, and was likely to remain so for the time being, mainly affected by the outbreak of the disease. Thereafter, the economy was expected to return to a moderate expanding trend, supported by a virtuous cycle from income to spending, with the impact of COVID-19 waning mainly owing to measures taken by each country. Exports and industrial production had declined due to the slowdown in overseas economies since last year, as well as the decrease in external demand, mainly from China, and the effects on the global supply chain of stopping production, also mainly in China, reflecting the outbreak of COVID-19. Although China's economic activity had gradually been picking up, its capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector had not returned to the level seen prior to the outbreak, and supply chain disruptions caused by a shortage of parts were yet to be resolved. Inbound tourism consumption had also declined. The effects of expanding measures to prevent infection taken by each country and region were expected to materialize. Private consumption had been weak recently due mainly to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) -- calculated by combining various sales and supply-side statistics -- had shown a relatively significant decline in October 2019 on a month-on-month basis, mainly due to a decline in demand following the tax hike and to the effects of natural disasters such as the Typhoon No. Through January 2020, however, the CAI had shown signs of a pick-up, albeit at a moderate pace due mainly to the effects of the unusually warm winter. Although some of the latest economic indicators had not yet been released, according to the available indicators and anecdotal information, consumption expenditure appeared to have dropped significantly since February, mainly in the services sector, due to self-restraints on holding events and going outside. As for prices, the year-on-year rates of change in the consumer price index (CPI) both for all items less fresh food and for all items less fresh food and energy were in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to be somewhat weak for the time being, partly due to the effects of the decline in crude oil prices. Thereafter, it was expected to increase gradually with the economy returning to a moderate expanding trend. Financial conditions were accommodative on the whole, but they had become less so, as seen, for example, in the financial positions of some small and medium-sized firms. Inflation expectations had been more or less unchanged from a somewhat longer-term perspective, but somewhat weak indicators had been observed recently. Firms' financial positions had been favorable on the whole, although weakness had been seen in those of some firms, mainly small and medium-sized ones, reflecting such factors as the outbreak of COVID-19. Regarding firms' credit demand, some developments had been observed that suggested increased demand for operating funds caused by the outbreak of the disease. Meanwhile, financial institutions' lending attitudes continued to be accommodative. In the CP and corporate bond markets, issuance spreads remained tight, but there had been some moves to secure ample on-hand liquidity through an increase in CP issuance. The chairman said that, given the current situation where financial markets had been unstable and there was concern over financial positions, mainly among small and medium-sized firms, it was appropriate for the Bank to discuss possible monetary policy measures. The staff provided the following explanation. With a view to doing its utmost to ensure smooth corporate financing and maintaining stability in financial markets, thereby preventing firms' and households' sentiment from deteriorating, there were three possible measures that the Bank could take at this point. First, it could provide more ample funds for the time being, such as by actively purchasing JGBs and doing its utmost to provide U.S. dollar liquidity through U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, which had been enhanced earlier today. It could also implement the following two measures to facilitate corporate financing and maintain stability in financial markets, and thereby enhance monetary easing. The specifics of measures to facilitate corporate financing could be as follows. Introduction of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Corporate Financing regarding the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) As a temporary measure until the end of September 2020, the Bank could provide loans against corporate debt as collateral at the interest rate of 0 percent with maturity up to one year. In addition, as an incentive for financial institutions, it could include twice as much as the amount outstanding of the loans in the Macro Add-on Balances in their current accounts held at the Bank. Increase in purchases of CP and corporate bonds The Bank could increase the upper limit to purchase CP and corporate bonds by 1 trillion yen each -- 2 trillion yen in total -- and continue the additional purchases until the end of September 2020. measures to maintain stability in financial markets the Bank could increase its purchases of ETFs and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). Specifically, it could actively purchase these assets for the time being so that their amounts outstanding would increase at annual paces with upper limits doubled to about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively. The principles in the existing guideline for such purchases should remain effective. Members agreed that global financial and capital markets had been unstable, with growing uncertainties over the global economy due mainly to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. Some members said that it was notable that volatility had increased not only in the stock market but also in the bond market, and developments in global financial markets had been extremely nervous. One of these members pointed out that such developments indicated progress in market participants' flight to cash. A different member noted that, while market participants had started to work split shifts under, for example, stay-at-home orders, the understaffed situation had also affected financial markets. A few members pointed out that there was a risk that households' sentiment and firms' investment stance would rapidly become cautious if financial markets remained unstable. Meanwhile, a few members commented that crude oil prices had fallen sharply, due to declining demand and disagreement over oil-production cuts. Members concurred that overseas economies had recently shown clear signs of a slowdown due mainly to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. One member said that, in the standard case, the outbreak of an infectious disease first brings about a significant economic downturn in the short term and, as the outbreak recedes, the economy eventually recovers. However, some members, including this member, pointed out that, while the disease seemed to be starting to recede in China, the impact could be prolonged and significant, considering the global spread of the disease. One member expected that the growth pace of the global economy would pick up in the second half of 2020, but also noted that the situation could not be viewed optimistically. With regard to the current situation of overseas economies by region and their outlook, some members expressed the view that, although the impact of COVID-19 had been serious, the Chinese economy was heading toward a recovery, as seen, for example, in factories gradually resuming production with the deceleration in the pace of increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. As for the U.S. and European economies, a few members pointed out that there was a growing possibility that overall economic activity would be pushed down until there were prospects that the spread of COVID-19 would recede, as measures such as state of emergency declarations and border closures were successively implemented. Based on the above deliberations on economic and financial conditions abroad, members discussed the state of Japan's economy. Members agreed that economic activity had been weak recently, under the circumstances where global financial and capital markets had been unstable, with growing uncertainties over the global economy due mainly to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. Some members pointed out that the outbreak had started to exert serious effects on Japan's economy mainly through decreases in exports and inbound tourism consumption, disruptions to supply chains, and a decline in private consumption caused by self-restraints on holding events and going outside. One of these members expressed the view that business fixed investment was also highly likely to be held off amid growing uncertainties regarding the outlook. A few members noted that employment maintained its high level, at least for the moment. One member expressed the view that if relatively firm employment could be maintained to a certain extent, the resilience of the economy to downward pressure would strengthen. In response to this, one member pointed out that employment was a lagging indicator, and therefore, the outlook for the economy could not be viewed optimistically only on the grounds that employment had been firm thus far. On this basis, some members commented that the real GDP growth rate for the January-March quarter of 2020 was highly likely to be negative on a quarter-on-quarter basis, as in the October-December quarter of 2019. Members concurred that it was likely to remain weak for the time being, mainly affected by the outbreak of COVID-19. Members pointed out that there was a growing possibility that overall economic activity would be pushed down until there were prospects that the spread of COVID-19 would recede. Members discussed the state of Japan's economy. Members agreed that economic activity had been weak recently. Some members pointed out that the outbreak had started to exert serious effects on Japan's economy mainly through decreases in exports and inbound tourism consumption, disruptions to supply chains, and a decline in private consumption caused by self-restraints on holding events and going outside. Members concurred that the outlook for economic activity was likely to remain weak for the time being. Members concurred that downside risks to economic activity and prices seemed to have been increasing due to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI for all items less fresh food was in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent. Members concurred that the outlook for prices was likely to be somewhat weak for the time being. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan were accommodative on the whole but had become less so, as seen partly in corporate financing. Members pointed out that financing was becoming an urgent issue for firms due to the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. Members agreed that it was essential to maintain the sufficient functioning of financial intermediation to ensure stability in financial markets by restraining the expansion in risk premia. Members recognized that it was important to provide ample funds so that financial institutions could sufficiently fulfill the functioning of financial intermediation. Members concurred that it was appropriate for the Bank to enhance monetary easing, considering the impact of COVID-19. Members stated that the new special funds-supplying operations to facilitate corporate financing would encourage financial institutions to actively facilitate financing of their client firms. Members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to maintain the guideline for asset purchases. Members agreed to apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the short-term policy interest rate. Members agreed to purchase JGBs so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. Members agreed to set upper limits for asset purchases. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase JGBs so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will conduct purchases in a flexible manner so that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about 80 trillion yen. Votes for the proposal: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi, Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi, Mr. FUNO Yukitoshi, Mr. SAKURAI Makoto, Ms. MASAI Takako, and Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi. Votes against the proposal: Mr. HARADA Yutaka and Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Harada dissented, considering that allowing the long-term yields to move upward and downward to some extent was too ambiguous as the guideline for market operations decided by the Policy Board. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to strengthen monetary easing by lowering the short-term policy interest rate. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. In principle, the Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. The Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2.2 trillion yen and about 3.2 trillion yen, respectively. Members voted unanimously to approve the proposal. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of January 20 and 21, 2020, for release on March 19. The Bank will continue with 'Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control,' aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank recognizes that monetary easing measures decided today will contribute to supporting economic and financial activities, coupled with various measures by the Japanese government as well as those by the government and the central bank of each country in response to the outbreak of COVID-19. The Bank will take these measures with a view to doing its utmost to ensure smooth corporate financing and maintaining stability in financial markets, thereby preventing firms' and households' sentiment from deteriorating. The Bank will provide more ample yen funds for the time being by making use of active purchases of JGBs and other operations as well as measures in (2) and (3) below. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to introduce a new operation to provide loans against corporate debt (of about 8 trillion yen as of end-February 2020) as collateral at the interest rate of 0 percent with maturity up to one year.