Members agreed that attention should continue to be paid to the course of COVID-19 following, for example, the emergence of the Omicron variant. Members agreed that it was important for the Bank to continue to support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to extend in part its implementation period by six months. One member noted that it was necessary to explain that the revision of the Special Program decided at this meeting would not have negative effects on economic activity and prices. Most members expressed the view that it was appropriate for the Bank to apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. Members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to make necessary revisions to part of the Special Program and extend in part its implementation period by six months. Some members noted that the Bank could revise the incentives for financial institutions to use the operations. Members recognized that the aim of the fund-provisioning against government-supported loans under the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing was to provide financing to financial institutions. Members recognized that the revision of the Special Program decided at this meeting would not have negative effects on economic activity and prices. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. Votes for the proposal: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi, Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi, Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi, Mr. ADACHI Seiji, Mr. NAKAMURA Toyoaki, Mr. NOGUCHI Asahi, and Ms. NAKAGAWA Junko. Votes against the proposal: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. Members voted unanimously to approve "Amendment to 'Principal Terms and Conditions of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)'", which made revisions to part of the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) and extended in part its implementation period. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of October 27 and 28, 2021, for release on December 22.