A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Tuesday, January 17, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:31 p.m., and on Wednesday, January 18, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on December 19 and 20, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for conduct of yield curve control decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.5 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. In addition, it had nimbly increased the amount of JGB purchases for each maturity even more and conducted fixed rate purchase operations of 2-, 5-, and 20-year JGBs. Furthermore, the Bank had also conducted fund-provisioning under the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral with a loan duration of two years through the fixed-rate method. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent. Looking at the shape of the JGB yield curve since the previous meeting, although distortions on the yield curve temporarily had shown signs of dissipating, they nevertheless remained, mainly as evidenced by the fact that an inverted yield curve had recently steepened in some zones. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. Furthermore, with a view to meeting a wider range of financing needs, the Bank had conducted fund-provisioning under the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral with a loan duration of two weeks without setting an upper limit. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.014 to minus 0.071 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.086 to minus 0.099 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had decreased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had declined marginally. Although long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had risen within the expanded range of long-term interest rate fluctuations decided at the previous meeting, they had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. Meanwhile, turning to the yield curve, yields in the medium- to long-term zone had increased. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against the U.S. dollar, mainly on the back of a narrowing of the yield differential between Japan and the United States; the yen had also appreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. The Chinese economy remained under strong downward pressure, primarily for private consumption, with COVID-19 spreading nationwide. With regard to economies other than China, supply-side constraints continued to wane and this had underpinned production activities, mainly for automobiles and capital goods. In advanced economies, however, slowdowns continued to be observed on the whole, as these economies remained under downward pressure stemming from elevated inflation, policy interest rate hikes, and the impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine. Moreover, global production of IT-related goods had been somewhat weak, affected by inventory adjustments. As for the outlook, although the effects of supply-side constraints were likely to wane, overseas economies were expected to slow, albeit with variation across countries and regions, reflecting various downward pressures. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in global inflationary pressure, the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine, and the impact of COVID-19 in China. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy remained on a slowing trend, in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, although firmness had been seen in private consumption. Despite downward pressure due to price rises remaining, private consumption had been firm, partly owing to the effects of discount sales, with household savings that had accumulated to date and firm labor market conditions continuing to act as underpinning factors. Housing investment had decreased in reflection of the policy interest rate hikes. Business fixed investment continued to see a small increase; however, production had been more or less flat on the whole, and business sentiment in the manufacturing industry had shown signs of deteriorating somewhat. Regarding prices, although the year-on-year rate of change in the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had decelerated from its peak, it maintained a high increase of around 5.5 percent, reflecting an acceleration in the rate of increase in services prices, within which housing rent had a large weight. European economies had recovered moderately, but slowdowns had been observed as these economies continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. Private consumption had seen a slowdown as the effects of the resumption of economic activity had peaked out and as a rise in inflation and policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB) continued. Exports and production had been more or less flat on the whole, albeit with fluctuations. Business fixed investment had improved as a trend. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of increase in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been at a very high level of around 10 percent, mainly due to a rise in food and energy prices. The Chinese economy had slowed, reflecting the impact of the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Private consumption had decreased due to downward pressure from the spread. Exports had decreased, mainly affected by inventory adjustments for some IT-related goods and for consumer goods in advanced economies, as well as by the production situation reflecting the spread of COVID-19. Fixed asset investment had been more or less flat on the whole; infrastructure investment had been firm, while real estate investment continued to decrease. In this situation, production had slowed, reflecting a deceleration in domestic demand, as well as the effects of corporate activities and the logistics situation. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole, albeit with weakness seen in part. The NIEs and the ASEAN economies had recovered on the whole as domestic demand continued to improve with progress in the resumption of economic activity, although exports continued to show some weakness. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in the United States and Europe were more or less unchanged over the intermeeting period, albeit with some fluctuations in response to such factors as economic and price indicators. As for stock prices in advanced economies, those in Europe had increased significantly, mainly on the back of diminished concern over energy supplies during this winter, and those in the United States had also risen. Currencies in emerging economies had appreciated, reflecting the easing of the zero-COVID policy by the Chinese government and price rises of commodities such as nonferrous metals. Crude oil prices had risen over the intermeeting period. Japan's economy, despite being affected by factors such as high commodity prices, had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected from COVID-19. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from high commodity prices and slowdowns in overseas economies. Exports and production had increased as a trend, with the effects of supply-side constraints waning. Developments in real exports by goods were as follows. Exports of automobile-related goods had increased moderately, as the tightness in global supply and demand conditions for semiconductors used in automobiles had gradually eased on the whole. Exports of capital goods had increased, supported by high levels of order backlogs, although orders for semiconductor production equipment, for example, had seen a pause. In contrast, exports of IT-related goods had been somewhat weak on the whole, with stronger adjustment pressure on electronic parts such as semiconductors for smartphones and for personal computers, although demand for automobile-related goods had been firm. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were likely to follow an uptrend, supported by the waning of supply-side constraints and high levels of order backlogs for automobiles and capital goods, although they were expected to be affected by the slowdowns in overseas economies. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business sentiment was more or less unchanged. Business fixed investment had increased moderately. With the effects of supply-side constraints waning, the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- had increased, albeit with fluctuations, mainly led by digital- and labor saving-related investments. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- had increased moderately, mainly due to a rise in construction of logistics facilities on the back of an expansion in e-commerce and to progress in urban redevelopment projects. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, business fixed investment was expected to continue increasing, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions. Looking at leading indicators of such investment, machinery orders (private sector, excluding orders for ships and those from electric power companies) and construction starts (in terms of planned expenses for private and nonresidential construction) had both increased, albeit with fluctuations. Private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by COVID-19. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) remained more or less flat for the July-September quarter of 2022, despite being affected by the COVID-19 resurgence. It then increased for the October-November period relative to that quarter, mainly for services consumption, as the resumption of consumption activities had progressed while public health had been protected, and as the government's domestic travel discount program had made a positive contribution. By type, albeit with fluctuations that had mainly resulted from weather conditions, consumption of durable goods had picked up moderately, mainly due to the waning of supply-side constraints. Consumption of nondurable goods had increased, mainly for clothes. Services consumption had increased, underpinned by the government's domestic travel discount program. Looking at developments in private consumption since December 2022 based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, it seemed to have been on a moderate uptrend, although prices kept rising and the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had followed an increasing trend. However, firms continued to share their views that households' defensive attitudes toward spending, such as shifting to cheaper products and lower-end stores, had been intensifying gradually, and some firms had expressed their concerns that the impact of the decline in households' real income could heighten going forward. Looking at confidence indicators related to private consumption, the consumer confidence index bounced back marginally in December 2022 for the first time in four months, mainly on the back of improvement in the employment situation. However, it had been at a low level, particularly in terms of consumer perception of "overall livelihood," with attention being given to price rises. Regarding the outlook, although private consumption was expected to be under downward pressure from the real income side due to price rises, it was projected to continue increasing. This was mainly because pent-up demand was likely to materialize, supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed further while public health was being protected. The employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole. Regarding the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey, that of regular employees had followed a moderate uptrend, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced a severe labor shortage. When fluctuations were smoothed out, the number of non-regular employees had followed a moderate uptrend, mainly in the face-to-face services industry, as well as the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry. Total cash earnings per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the pick-up in overall economic activity. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue increasing along with economic improvement. In real terms, however, the year-on-year rate of change in employee income was projected to be negative for the time being, reflecting price rises. As for prices, international commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole, at a level that had declined substantially compared to a while ago, because concern over a global economic slowdown had weighed on them. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier continued to be relatively high, reflecting past developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rate developments. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 3.5-4.0 percent due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. Inflation expectations had risen. Specifically, short-term expectations had increased. Medium- to long-term expectations had also risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be relatively high in the short run due to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by a rise in import prices. It was then expected to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023 due to a waning of these effects, as well as to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds had risen moderately as demand for working capital had increased in reflection of a pick-up in economic activity and raw material cost increases. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. Those for corporate bonds also had been favorable on the whole, although issuance spreads had expanded. However, it was too early to make an assessment of issuance conditions for corporate bonds since the previous meeting, partly because issuance of corporate bonds was seasonally less active through the year-end and New Year holidays. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. Looking at developments in various lending rates since the previous meeting, for housing loans, the applied interest rates on floating-rate loans, which accounted for a large share, were unchanged. The interest rates on fixed-rate housing loans had been raised gradually during the course of 2022; since the previous meeting, moves by some financial institutions to raise the rates had been observed, reflecting developments in JGB yields. For loans to firms, the applied interest rates on floating-rate loans, which accounted for about half of the loans, were unchanged. Although interest rates that would be newly applied to fixed-rate loans could be raised in the future, the effects were likely to be limited at this point. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 3 percent and around 4 percent, respectively; their amounts outstanding remained at high levels. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions continued on an improving trend, including for small and medium-sized firms, on the back of the pick-up in the economy, although weakness remained in some segments. Members voted unanimously to approve the amendment. Members voted unanimously to approve the proposal. Members shared the view that market sentiment remained cautious, as attention had been drawn to uncertainties surrounding monetary tightening by central banks in the United States and Europe and to a slowdown in the global economy. Members agreed that the pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. Members shared the recognition that the U.S. economy remained on a slowing trend, in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, although firmness had been seen in private consumption. Members shared the view that European economies had recovered moderately, but slowdowns had been observed as these economies continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. Members agreed that the Chinese economy had slowed, reflecting the impact of the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Members shared the recognition that emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole, albeit with weakness seen in part. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Members shared the recognition that firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels, and that the environment for external funding had been favorable on the whole. Members shared the view that Japan's economy, despite being affected by factors such as high commodity prices, had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected from COVID-19. Members agreed that exports and production had increased as a trend, with the effects of supply-side constraints waning. Members shared the recognition that business fixed investment had increased moderately with corporate profits being at high levels on the whole. Members agreed that private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by COVID-19. Members concurred that the employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 3.5-4.0 percent due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. Members shared the view that, toward the middle of the projection period, Japan's economy was likely to recover -- with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning and with support from accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures -- although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from high commodity prices and slowdowns in overseas economies. Members shared the recognition that, from the middle of the projection period, Japan's economy was projected to continue growing at a pace above its potential growth rate as a virtuous cycle from income to spending intensified gradually in the overall economy. Members concurred that, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, business fixed investment was expected to continue increasing, including investment to address labor shortage, digital-related investment, research and development (R&D) investment related to growth areas and decarbonization, and investment associated with strengthening supply chains, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions. Members agreed that, although private consumption was expected to be under downward pressure from the real income side due to price rises, it was projected to continue increasing. Members shared the view that employee income was projected to continue increasing moderately. Members concurred that, comparing the projections with those in the October Outlook Report, the projected growth rates for fiscal 2022 and 2023 were somewhat lower, mainly due to overseas economies deviating downward from the previous baseline scenario, although the government's economic measures were likely to make a positive contribution to the growth rates. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be relatively high in the short run due to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by a rise in import prices. Members shared the view that, thereafter, it was projected to accelerate again moderately on the back of improvement in the output gap, rises in medium- to long-term inflation expectations and in wage growth, and a waning of the effects of the economic measures pushing down energy prices toward the middle of fiscal 2023. Members shared the view that, given that the formation of inflation expectations in Japan was largely adaptive, an increase in actual inflation was expected to bring about a rise in households' and firms' medium- to long-term inflation expectations and, through changes in firms' price- and wage-setting behavior and in labor-management wage negotiations, lead to a sustained rise in prices accompanied by wage increases. Members shared the recognition that, from a longer-term perspective, if downward pressure on financial institutions' profits became prolonged, there would be risks of both a gradual pullback in financial intermediation activities and of increased vulnerability of the financial system, mainly due to the search for yield behavior; however, these risks were not significant at this point. Members agreed that it was important to continue with the current monetary easing -- including the conduct of yield curve control -- and thereby achieve the price stability target in a sustainable and stable manner accompanied by wage increases. Members discussed developments in Japan's financial system. They agreed that it was maintaining stability on the whole. Members shared the view that, although attention was warranted on, for example, the impact of the tightening of global financial conditions, the financial system was likely to remain highly robust on the whole even in the case of an adjustment in the real economy at home and abroad and in global financial and capital markets, mainly because financial institutions had sufficient capital bases. Members shared the recognition that, from a longer-term perspective, if downward pressure on financial institutions' profits became prolonged, there would be risks of both a gradual pullback in financial intermediation activities and of increased vulnerability of the financial system, mainly due to the search for yield behavior; however, these risks were not significant at this point. Members agreed that, based on developments in economic activity and prices, it was important to continue with the current monetary easing. Members added that, in order to encourage firms' efforts with regard to business transformation until sustained wage increases could be expected, the Bank needed to curb interest rate rises across the entire yield curve while paying attention to the functioning of bond markets. Members shared the recognition that long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent, in line with the guideline for market operations, and pointed out that it might take some time for the market to calm down and for market functioning to recover. Members discussed the Bank's communication to the public with respect to monetary policy conduct. The Policy Board decided to apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. Members also agreed on the guideline for asset purchases. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank decided to set the following guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will support financing, mainly of firms, and maintain stability in financial markets, and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary; it also expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels.