A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, July 15, 2021, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:58 p.m., and on Friday, July 16, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on June 17 and 18, 2021, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19); flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.03 to minus 0.05 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.07 to minus 0.09 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. stock prices had been rising, mainly driven by IT-related stocks, the Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was generally unchanged, albeit with fluctuations; this reflected concerns over the difference in progress with vaccinations in Japan relative to the United States and Europe as well as the reinstatement of the state of emergency for Tokyo. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been more or less flat against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Business sentiment globally had improved and the trade volume continued to increase clearly. In advanced economies, as public health measures had been lifted in stages, an improving trend in economic activity had been intensifying on the back of progress with vaccinations and governments' economic measures. On the other hand, in emerging economies, downward pressure from a resurgence of COVID-19 continued to be exerted, mainly on some ASEAN countries. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. That said, the pace of recovery was highly likely to be uneven across countries, primarily due to the different paces in the vaccine rollout. In addition, there remained high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on the global economy. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered with economic activity resuming and on the back of additional economic measures that had already been implemented. The pace of increase in private consumption had accelerated, including services consumption, which had been constrained. Housing investment had been on an increasing trend, although such effects as of a shortage in building materials had been seen in part. As for the corporate sector, business sentiment kept improving clearly and production continued to increase. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had increased, mainly for machinery investment. The European economy had picked up from a state of being pushed down with public health measures being eased. Private consumption, including services consumption, had also picked up. With regard to the corporate sector, business sentiment had improved, mainly in the services industry, and exports and production had followed a pick-up trend. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had picked up. The Chinese economy continued to recover. Exports had increased. Private consumption also had increased, mainly owing to an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to rise in a wide range of industries on the back of recovery in demand at home and abroad and firm corporate profits. Under these circumstances, production also continued to increase. Emerging economies other than China maintained their pick-up trend on the whole, although domestic demand had been pushed down in some countries and regions due to the resurgence of COVID-19. The NIEs continued on a recovery trend with exports increasing, although some economies had been affected by the spread of COVID-19. The pace of pick-up in the ASEAN countries had decelerated as downward pressure on domestic demand had been intensifying in some countries, mainly reflecting the resurgence of COVID-19, although exports continued to increase. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in advanced economies had declined due to diminishing vigilance against an earlier start to tapering and to a policy rate hike, both by the Federal Reserve. stock prices had risen, mainly driven by IT-related stocks, reflecting the decline in long-term interest rates. In addition, European stock prices had been at around record high levels. In the foreign exchange market, currencies in emerging economies had depreciated, reflecting the appreciation of the U.S. dollar following the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting held on June 15 and 16, 2021; thereafter, they were more or less flat with the appreciation coming to a pause. Crude oil prices had risen, mainly due to a decrease in inventories in the United States. Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, mainly due to progress with vaccinations, and supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. That said, while vigilance against COVID-19 continued, the level of economic activity, mainly in the face-to-face services sector, was expected to be lower than that prior to the pandemic for the time being. Exports and industrial production continued to increase steadily against the background of the recovery in overseas economies. Looking at industrial production by industry, transport equipment production saw a deceleration in its pace of increase from the turn of 2021, mainly affected by a shortage of semiconductors, and had declined recently to a relatively large extent. Production of general-purpose, production, and business-oriented machinery continued to increase firmly, mainly for semiconductor production equipment and construction machinery, on the back of a recovery in demand for business fixed investment at home and abroad. Production of electronic parts and devices continued to increase evidently for a wide range of items, reflecting steady demand for parts for data centers, those related to smartphones and personal computers, and those for on-board equipment for motor vehicles. As for the outlook, exports and industrial production were likely to continue increasing steadily, mainly on the back of a mitigation of the effects of the semiconductor shortage in transport equipment production, as well as solid digital-related demand and a global recovery in demand for business fixed investment. Corporate profits and business sentiment had improved on the whole, although weakness had been seen in some industries, such as face-to-face services. In the June 2021 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan), the diffusion index (DI) for business conditions for all industries and enterprises had improved for four consecutive quarters after hitting a bottom in the June 2020 survey. With regard to the manufacturing industry, although the DI for the automobile industry had deteriorated due to the effects of the semiconductor shortage, those for a wide range of industries continued to improve clearly. This was mainly on the back of the steady expansion in digital-related demand on a global basis and a pick-up in business fixed investment at home and abroad. As for the nonmanufacturing industry, the DI for the accommodations as well as eating and drinking services industries remained at a subdued level, affected by COVID-19 and public health measures. However, the DIs for such industries as goods rental and leasing, wholesaling, transport and postal activities, as well as services for individuals had improved, mainly reflecting a pick-up in economic activity and a resultant increase in logistics. Business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. Supported by improvement in corporate profits, the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- continued to increase firmly, mainly for digital-related goods, such as personal computers and goods related to base stations and 5G networks, and for construction machinery. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- remained on a moderate declining trend due to such effects as a decrease in construction of stores and accommodation facilities, mainly by the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries. However, the declining trend was coming to a halt. As for the outlook, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, supported by improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. When fluctuations were smoothed out, machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment -- had shown a pick-up, mainly in the manufacturing industry. Planned expenses of construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment -- had picked up on the whole. This was because, although the construction of stores and accommodation facilities -- mainly by the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries -- continued to decrease, construction starts had been supported by an increase in construction of such buildings as logistics facilities on the back of an expansion in e-commerce, as well as by progress in urban redevelopment projects and construction demand for medical, healthcare, and welfare services facilities. Looking at the business fixed investment plan in the June 2021, business fixed investment -- including software and research and development (R&D) investments and excluding land purchasing expenses, for all industries and enterprises including financial institutions -- was minus 8.1 percent for fiscal 2020 in terms of the year-on-year rate of change, registering a decline for the first time in 10 years. However, the plan for fiscal 2021 showed that business fixed investment was likely to see a substantial year-on-year increase of 9.4 percent. Private consumption had been stagnant due to strong downward pressure on consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) for the April-May period relative to the January-March quarter became negative due to the effects of a resurgence of COVID-19 and the resultant conduct of public health measures. Consumption of durable goods had seen a deceleration in its pace of increase recently, pushed down mainly by a decline in automobile sales reflecting supply-side constraints due to the semiconductor shortage. That of nondurable goods had decreased, mainly because demand for such items as clothes had waned, although food and daily necessities had been firm, supported by an expansion in stay-at-home demand. Services consumption had temporarily headed toward a pick-up in March but declined again for the April-May period, mainly affected by the resurgence of COVID-19. Looking at recent developments in private consumption based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators such as the number of people going outside, consumption activity seemed to have stayed at a low level on the whole amid public health measures remaining in place, although signs of a pick-up had been seen in some services consumption from late June, partly owing to progress with vaccinations. As for dining-out, a recovery in the number of diners remained sluggish, since the serving of alcohol had only been partially resumed and requests to shorten operating hours remained in place. Domestic travel seemed to have stayed at a low level on the whole, as consumers -- including seniors, for whom vaccinations had progressed -- were still cautious about long-distance travel. The state of emergency declared recently for Tokyo and other prefectures was projected to continue to strongly push down face-to-face services consumption through the July-August period. In the outlook, private consumption, mainly of face-to-face services, was likely to be subdued at a low level as long as public health measures remained in place. However, thereafter, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually, mainly led by the progress with vaccinations, private consumption was expected to pick up again, supported also by the materialization of the pent-up demand. The employment and income situation remained weak due to the impact of COVID-19. As for the employment situation, the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey had bottomed out, reflecting a pick-up trend in overall economic activity; however, it remained at a relatively low level, mainly for non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. On the other hand, underpinned by the adoption since April 2020 of the guideline that ensured the provision of equal pay for equal work, the number of regular employees continued to increase moderately, mainly in industries with a strong sense of labor shortage -- that is, the medical, healthcare, and welfare services as well as information and communications. The year-on-year rate of change in total cash earnings had been positive due to the base effect of the previous year's decline and an increase in scheduled cash earnings in some industries facing a strong sense of labor shortage. As for the outlook, employee income was likely to pick up, reflecting the pick-up in economic activity and improvement in business performance. As for prices, international commodity prices had clearly been on an uptrend recently, partly due to the effects of supply-side constraints observed in some industries, in addition to the recovery in overseas economies and the subsequent expansion in demand for commodities. In this situation, firms' terms of trade seemed to have deteriorated, as evidenced by the fact that the DI for input prices showed a larger increase than that for output prices in the June 2021. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 0 percent recently due to a rise in energy prices, despite being affected by COVID-19 and a reduction in mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be at around 0 percent in the short run. Thereafter, it was expected to increase, mainly on the back of economic recovery and the rise in energy prices, while being affected by the reduction in mobile phone charges. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Firms' demand for funds -- stemming mainly from a rise in precautionary demand due to the impact of COVID-19 -- had been at a high level on the whole, although some firms, particularly large ones, had started to repay loans by compressing their increased funds on hand. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had decelerated compared with the relatively high growth last year; the rates of increase had been in the ranges of 0.5-1.0 percent and 7.0-7.5 percent, respectively. The environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had also been at a low level. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 0 percent recently due to a rise in energy prices. Members concurred that financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Members concurred that the economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to be at around 0 percent in the short run. Members agreed that, thereafter, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase gradually, mainly on the back of continued improvement in economic activity. Members shared the view that medium- to long-term inflation expectations were more or less unchanged, but also were likely to rise again as firms' price-setting stance gradually became active. Members concurred that, as the impact of COVID-19 waned due to progress with vaccinations, overseas economies were likely to continue growing. Members agreed that, although firms' financial positions had improved compared with a while ago, they remained weak. Members agreed that firms' demand for funds -- stemming mainly from a rise in precautionary demand due to the impact of COVID-19 -- had been at a high level on the whole. Members concurred that financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Members concurred that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to be steady at a slightly positive level, when excluding such temporary factors as the reduction in mobile phone charges and the rise in energy prices. Members shared the view that, although weakness in demand amid the situation of COVID-19 was projected to have an impact on prices, it was likely that firms' price cuts that aimed at stimulating demand would still not be observed widely. Members agreed that, thereafter, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase gradually. Members shared the recognition that, owing to the continuation of powerful monetary easing by the Bank, financial conditions would remain accommodative and further downward pressure on the real economy from the financial side would be avoided. Members concurred that the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on domestic and overseas economies entailed high uncertainties. Members shared the recognition that, with regard to the risk balance, risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside for the time being. Members agreed that the financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Members shared the recognition that the situation surrounding financial institutions' profit structure was becoming more severe. Members agreed that, if risks to economic activity materialized, prices also were likely to be affected accordingly. Members decided to introduce a new fund-provisioning measure to address climate change. Members agreed that it would be appropriate for funds to be provided against those made by counterparties as part of their efforts to contribute to Japan's actions to address climate change. Members agreed that, as for the method of fund-provisioning, yen-denominated funds would be provided against pooled collateral. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of June 17 and 18, 2021, for release on July 21. The Policy Board approved unanimously the dates of the Monetary Policy Meetings to be held in 2022 and agreed to make this public after the meeting. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it was necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeded 2 percent and stayed above the target in a stable manner. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. Kataoka dissented, considering that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target.