A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, December 18, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:04 p.m., and on Tuesday, December 19, from 9:00 a.m. The Bank had been conducting market operations, including purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), in accordance with the guideline for market operations and the guideline for conduct of yield curve control, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on October 30 and 31, 2023. As for the Bank's conduct of nimble market operations, specifically, it had carried out unscheduled purchases of JGBs and reduced the amount of its scheduled JGB purchases, mainly taking into account interest rate developments and supply and demand conditions in the JGB markets. With these market operations, long-term interest rates had been at levels consistent with the Bank's guideline and the shape of the JGB yield curve continued to be generally smooth. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guidelines for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.008 to minus 0.027 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.077 to minus 0.270 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields), after reaching around 0.95 percent immediately after the previous meeting, declined to the 0.6-0.7 percent level in line with a significant decrease in U.S. long-term interest rates. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets improved in the period from summer 2023 to early autumn but had seen a pause in their improvement recently. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, showed an improvement from the previous survey. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against the U.S. dollar as the yield differential between Japan and the United States had narrowed due to the significant decline in U.S. long-term interest rates. The yen had also appreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB). The Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly owing to the effects of a slowdown in external demand and adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, with exports showing signs of a pick-up. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being. Thereafter, they were expected to grow moderately, albeit with variation across countries and regions. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of past policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, in the United States and Europe, long-term interest rates had declined significantly, led by the United States, as market participants' concern over prolonged monetary tightening and a deterioration in the supply and demand conditions of U.S. Treasury securities had abated. and European stock prices had risen substantially, reflecting the significant decline in long-term interest rates. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had appreciated in reflection of the decline in U.S. long-term interest rates. Crude oil prices had declined, mainly due to the disagreement among oil-producing economies over further coordinated oil production cuts. Japan's economy had recovered moderately. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to continue recovering moderately for the time being, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand, as well as by factors such as accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were projected to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, as overseas economies grew moderately, albeit with variation across countries and regions, they were likely to return to an uptrend. Corporate profits and business sentiment had improved. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits improved, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions. Private consumption continued to increase moderately, despite being affected by price rises. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had been on an increasing trend until October 2023, albeit with monthly fluctuations. With regard to private consumption since November 2023, based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, this seemed to have continued on a moderate uptrend, as the income situation had improved and pent-up demand had also provided support. However, a gradually increasing number of firms had pointed out a rise in households' thriftiness in response to price rises. Consumer sentiment remained at an improved level compared with a while ago, although it had seen a pause in its improvement due to the effects of high prices. Regarding the outlook, although such consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to keep increasing moderately with nominal employee income continuing to improve, and partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had risen moderately, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, with both these industries facing severe labor shortages. With economic activity normalizing, the number of non-regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, mainly in the wholesale and retail trade as well as the face-to-face services industries. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity and the results of the annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. Partly as inflation declined, the year-on-year rate of decline in real employee income was projected to follow a decelerating trend; thereafter, the rate of change was likely to gradually turn positive. As for prices, while crude oil prices had declined, other commodity prices had been more or less flat on the whole. With the impact of past high commodity prices gradually waning, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had been at around 0 percent. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been at around 3 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be above 2 percent through fiscal 2024, due to factors such as the remaining effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices. Thereafter, the rate of increase was projected to decelerate owing to dissipation of these factors. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. With a high level of demand for working capital stemming from elevated raw material costs, firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 2 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been at around 9 percent. That in the money stock had been in the range of 2.0-2.5 percent. As part of the Review of Monetary Policy from a Broad Perspective, the Research and Statistics Department was conducting a research project that looked back on developments in economic activity and prices over the past 25 years. In this project, the staff had been conducting the following so far: (1) summarizing past discussions and previous studies, and (2) with regard to economic activity and prices in Japan since the late 1990s, making analyses from various perspectives, such as the effects of globalization, sluggish productivity, deterioration in the terms of trade, and people's mindset on prices as well as the social norm for them. With regard to productivity and other factors, (1) it was likely that productivity of Japan's trading sector had not necessarily benefitted fully from globalization, compared with in the United States and Europe. In this situation, (2) the decline in the competitiveness of Japan's trading sector relative to that of other countries seemed to be a factor that had led to deterioration in Japan's terms of trade, and this in turn had a negative impact on household income and private consumption. Meanwhile, (3) it was less likely that the so-called zombie firms had significantly inhibited Japan's economic growth, as their share had been at low levels in recent years. As for price and wage developments, (1) the view that prices and wages do not increase easily was deemed to have gradually taken hold in society, as the costs that firms incur when revising prices -- or menu costs -- had increased, and to have strengthened due to the prolonged low-inflation environment. Meanwhile, (2) firms seemed to have secured profits by holding down wages as markups had contracted due to a highly competitive environment. In addition, (3) as globalization had proceeded, it was highly likely that overseas factors had acted to continuously exert downward pressure on Japan's consumer prices, except for the most recent period. Furthermore, (4) the relationship between economic activity and prices seemed to have weakened, as observed by the deviation between growth expectations and inflation expectations, as well as the flattening of the Phillips curve. As inflation rates had been relatively high over the past year or two, there seemed to be signs of change in the long-standing situation of prices not increasing easily. Specifically, the frequency of price revisions had seen a rapid rise recently, and it was likely that the view that prices do not increase easily would begin to dissipate through the accumulation of firms' experiences from raising prices. In addition, downward pressure on costs from abroad that had been observed over most of the past 25 years was turning to upward pressure. However, the sustainability of such changes continued to warrant attention. The Research and Statistics Department would continue with this research project, also making use of the results of a survey that was mainly on corporate behavior since the mid-1990s, which the Bank's Head Office and branches were currently working on together. With regard to the analyses of individual research, these were expected to be released in the form of research papers, such as the Bank of Japan Working Paper Series, and the staff would exchange views on the findings with experts, making use of occasions such as workshops. Based on the above staff reports, members discussed developments in economic activity and prices over the past 25 years, particularly the background to the prolonged situation of wages and prices not increasing easily. Some members expressed the recognition that it was the norm that wages and prices do not increase easily having taken hold in society during the deflationary period that had significantly contributed to the subsequent prolongation of low inflation. One of these members said that, with the low-inflation environment expected to be maintained, firms' pass-through of cost increases to selling prices had been less likely to take place. The member continued that this in turn had in part further intensified the perception that prices do not increase easily. A different member expressed the view that, when faced with such substantial shocks as financial crises, the impact on corporate and household behavior, as well as the adaptive formation mechanism of inflation expectations, would likely be prolonged by around a decade or more. The member added that, in the current situation where the Bank patiently continued with monetary easing for a long period, there had been a new shock of significant cost increases, and this had finally started to create an environment that was favorable for inflation expectations to change. One member pointed out that it was necessary to conduct a more detailed analysis of how, and to what extent, the norm of prices not increasing easily had affected the price formation mechanism. Some members pointed to the effects of changes in Japan's growth potential and in the global environment on corporate behavior and prices. One of these members expressed the view that, amid environmental changes surrounding firms, including globalization, the declining population, and the yen's appreciation, Japanese firms had lagged behind reforms in their business models, and business management that emphasized cutting costs had taken hold against the background of the lingering management philosophy that had become entrenched during Japan's high-growth era -- namely, the idea that "wage increases stemming from improved labor productivity should be absorbed by firms' efforts, including the containment of costs through mass production." The member continued that this had resulted in stagnant innovation and wages. A different member pointed out that, as Japanese firms had long been exposed to intense competition, they had improved their production efficiency to secure high international competitiveness. The member -- noting that such competent business models of Japanese firms had seen a collapse during the 1990s -- expressed interest in whether the collapse was brought about by the effects of rapid appreciation of the yen or of monetary policy. One member commented that it also was important to consider whether changes in the global inflationary environment over the past few years were a structural or temporary phenomenon, with the latter arising from the course of recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. The member -- noting that the norm for prices and the global low-inflation environment had significantly influenced past low inflation -- pointed out that, if these structural factors were beginning to shift, the implication would be that there was a greater possibility of Japan's economy achieving the price stability target of 2 percent and enabling it to take hold. Meanwhile, one member noted, as an example, that there could be varied views regarding the relationship between the so-called zombie firms and Japan's growth potential. The member then said that, with a view to enhancing the objectivity and transparency of the review from a broad perspective, it was important that the Bank incorporate diverse expertise through such initiatives as conducting surveys, holding interviews and workshops, and inviting public comment concerning its releases. A different member commented that it was necessary to continue to examine whether low interest rates had been one of the causes of the issue of zombie firms. Members agreed that sustainable and stable achievement of the price stability target accompanied by wage increases was not yet envisaged with sufficient certainty at this point, and thus the Bank needed to patiently continue with monetary easing under yield curve control, aiming to support Japan's economic activity and thereby facilitate a favorable environment for wage increases. With regard to asset purchases other than JGB purchases, the Bank decided to set the following guidelines. The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will maintain the amount outstanding of CP at about 2 trillion yen. It will purchase corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that their amount outstanding will gradually return to the pre-pandemic level of about 3 trillion yen. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary.