A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, June 17, 2021, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:38 p.m., and on Friday, June 18, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on April 26 and 27, 2021, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19); flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.04 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.06 to minus 0.10 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen slightly in tandem with U.S. and European stock prices. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. As for liquidity in the JGB market, a comparison of the May Bond Market Survey with the February survey showed that the diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning (the proportion of institutions responding that bond market functioning was 'high' minus the proportion of those responding that it was 'low') had declined slightly. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been depreciating against both the U.S. dollar and the euro with market sentiment continuing to improve. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. In advanced economies, the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 continued to decline on the back of progress with vaccinations. With economic activity resuming, private consumption in the United States had been improving further as a trend, partly reflecting the impact of additional economic measures implemented in March; in Europe, the pick-up in the face-to-face services industry -- which had been constrained -- had become evident. Meanwhile, in the United States, amid a rapid recovery in demand, there were some signs of bottlenecks on the supply side, such as a shortage of raw materials, a delay in deliveries, and heightening labor shortages in the face-to-face services industry. That said, many took the view that such developments at this point represented transitional friction arising during the process of economic activity resuming. Turning to the Chinese economy, both consumption and investment continued to increase firmly. The positive effects of the improvement in the advanced and Chinese economies had been spreading widely to emerging economies through the trade channel. However, India and some ASEAN countries in particular had been forced to tighten public health measures due to a surge in the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19, and thus their domestic demand had been pushed down. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. That said, the pace of recovery was highly likely to be uneven across countries, primarily due to the different paces in the vaccine rollout. In addition, there remained high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and their impact on the global economy. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. With vaccinations progressing and the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 decreasing, the pace of increase in private consumption had accelerated, including services consumption -- which had been constrained -- partly due to the effects of the government's economic measures. Housing investment had been on an increasing trend, with mortgage rates staying at low levels, although such effects as of a shortage in building materials had been seen in part. As for the corporate sector, business sentiment kept improving clearly and production continued to increase. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had increased, mainly for machinery investment. With regard to prices, both the year-on-year rate of change in the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator for all items and that for all items excluding food and energy had been somewhat significantly above 2 percent due to the base effect of the previous year's declines and the impact of temporary bottlenecks on the supply side that reflected the rapid resumption of economic activity. economy was likely to maintain relatively high growth amid progress in the resumption of economic activity. The European economy had started to pick up from a state of being pushed down. Private consumption, including services consumption, had also started to pick up from such state, with vaccinations progressing and the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 decreasing. With regard to the corporate sector, business sentiment had improved, including in the services industry, and exports and production had followed a pick-up trend. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had picked up. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) for all items had been near the quantitative definition of price stability set by the European Central Bank (ECB) -- below, but close to, 2 percent -- mainly due to the base effect of the previous year's decline, while that for all items excluding energy, food, alcohol, and tobacco had been below this level. The European economy was likely to recover, with further progress made in containing the spread of COVID-19. The Chinese economy continued to recover. Exports had increased. Private consumption had increased, mainly owing to an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to rise in a wide range of industries on the back of recovery in demand at home and abroad and firm corporate profits. Under these circumstances, production also continued to increase. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI) had been below the government's target for 2021 of around 3 percent. The Chinese economy was expected to return to a stable growth path that was led by the private sector. Emerging economies other than China maintained their pick-up trend on the whole, although domestic demand had been pushed down in some countries and regions due to a resurgence of COVID-19. The NIEs had recovered, with exports increasing. The ASEAN countries had seen a moderate pick-up in economic activity on the whole, supported by an increase in exports, although downward pressure on domestic demand had been intensifying in some countries, mainly reflecting the resurgence of COVID-19. The Russian economy had picked up. The pace of pick-up in the Brazilian economy had decelerated, particularly in domestic demand, mainly due to the resurgence of COVID-19, although an increase in exports had been acting as an underpinning factor. The Indian economy had been pushed down significantly, reflecting the explosive increase in the number of COVID-19 cases since early spring. With respect to overseas financial markets, in advanced economies, long-term interest rates had risen temporarily due to the fact that the U.S. CPI figures had turned out to be higher than market expectations. However, as communications by Federal Reserve officials had led to widespread anticipation that the Federal Reserve would continue with its monetary easing for a protracted period, long-term interest rates in the United States had declined somewhat and those in Europe were more or less unchanged throughout the intermeeting period. and European stock prices had risen throughout that period, reflecting favorable corporate results on the back of the reopening of the economy, although they had declined temporarily due to the rise in long-term interest rates. In the foreign exchange market, the U.S. dollar had depreciated against the background of anticipation that the Federal Reserve would continue with its monetary easing for a protracted period, and currencies in many emerging economies had appreciated. Crude oil prices had also risen, partly due to an improvement in the outlook for global demand. Japan's economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to head toward a recovery, supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. However, the level of economic activity, mainly in the face-to-face services sector, was expected to be lower than that prior to the pandemic for the time being while vigilance against COVID-19 continued. Exports continued to increase steadily against the background of the recovery in overseas economies. Looking at real exports by goods, the pace of increase in exports of automobile-related goods -- primarily of automobiles to the United States -- had decelerated recently, mainly affected by a shortage of semiconductors. IT-related exports continued to increase clearly because demand had been firm for a wide range of goods. Exports of capital goods continued to see a solid rise, supported by a global increase in machinery investment and firm exports of semiconductor production equipment. As for the outlook, exports of automobile-related goods were likely to remain under downward pressure for the time being, affected by the shortage of semiconductors. That said, exports overall were projected to continue increasing steadily, led mainly by IT-related goods and capital goods, supported by a steady expansion in digital-related demand and a recovery in business fixed investment, both on a global basis. Corporate profits and business sentiment had improved on the whole, although weakness had been seen in some industries, such as face-to-face services. Looking at the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry, Quarterly, current profits for all industries and enterprises for the January-March quarter of 2021 (seasonally adjusted) registered improvement for the third consecutive quarter. Under these circumstances, business fixed investment had picked up, although weakness had been seen in some industries. On the back of improvement in corporate profits, the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- continued to increase, mainly for digital-related goods. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- remained on a moderate declining trend. As for the outlook, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, supported by improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. Private consumption had been stagnant due to strong downward pressure on consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations. Consumption of durable goods continued to increase on the back of an expansion in stay-at-home demand and a demand shift from services. That of nondurable goods had been decreasing again since the turn of 2021, primarily due to waning demand brought about by the resurgence of COVID-19 and the implementation of public health measures. Services consumption had temporarily headed toward a pick-up in March, after having shown a relatively significant decline since the beginning of the year, affected by the resurgence of COVID-19 and a suspension of the "Go To Travel" campaign; however, its pace of increase decelerated again in April due to the resurgence of COVID-19. Looking at recent developments in private consumption based on anecdotal information from firms, statistics published by industry organizations, and high-frequency indicators such as the number of people going outside, it seemed to have remained weak since the start of May, particularly for services consumption, with public health measures remaining in place. In the outlook, while the impact of COVID-19 lingered and the resultant public health measures continued, downward pressure, mainly on face-to-face services consumption, was expected to persist, and thus private consumption was likely to remain stagnant at a relatively low level. Thereafter, it was expected to pick up again with vaccinations progressing and the impact of COVID-19 waning. Housing investment had stopped declining. The number of housing starts had declined due to the effects of the consumption tax hike and COVID-19 but had picked up recently. As for the outlook, with downward pressure stemming from these effects dissipating, housing investment was likely to head toward a pick-up, partly supported by accommodative financial conditions. The employment and income situation remained weak due to the impact of COVID-19. As for the employment situation, according to the Labour Force Survey, the number of employed persons had bottomed out, reflecting a pick-up trend in overall economic activity; however, it remained at a relatively low level, mainly for non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. On the other hand, underpinned by the adoption since April 2020 of the guideline that ensured the provision of equal pay for equal work, the number of regular employees continued to increase moderately, mainly in industries with a strong sense of labor shortage -- that is, the information and communications as well as the medical, healthcare, and welfare services. With regard to labor market conditions, the active job openings-to-applicants ratio remained more or less flat at a level slightly above 1. The increase in the labor force participation rate had leveled off, partly due to a peaking-out of the return of seniors and women to the labor market. The unemployment rate remained more or less flat, at around 3 percent, albeit with fluctuations. The year-on-year rate of change in total cash earnings had turned positive due to the base effect of the previous year's decline and an increase in scheduled cash earnings in some industries. As for the outlook, employee income was likely to stop declining and then head toward a pick-up, reflecting the pick-up in economic activity and improvement in business performance. Industrial production continued to increase steadily on the back of a rise in domestic and external demand. It was projected to continue to do so, mainly supported by firm digital-related demand and a recovery in business fixed investment demand, both on a global basis, although it was likely to be pushed down for the time being by the effects of the shortage of semiconductors. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 0 percent recently due to a rise in energy prices, despite being affected by COVID-19 and a reduction in mobile phone charges. With regard to the outlook, it was likely to be at around 0 percent in the short run. Thereafter, it was expected to increase, mainly on the back of economic recovery and the rise in energy prices, while being affected by the reduction in mobile phone charges. Inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Firms' demand for funds -- stemming mainly from a rise in precautionary demand due to the impact of COVID-19 -- had been at a high level on the whole, although some firms, particularly large ones, had started to repay loans by compressing their increased funds on hand. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, both the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and that in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had slowed, partly due to the relatively high growth registered a year before, and had been in the range of 2.0-2.5 percent and 7.0-7.5 percent, respectively. The environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had also been at a low level. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) has recently been around 0 percent due to a rise in energy prices. Members shared the view that financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Members shared the recognition that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Members agreed that the Japanese economy had picked up as a trend, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19. Members shared the recognition that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to be around 0 percent in the short run and thereafter was expected to increase gradually. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions had been seen. Members shared the recognition that, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole. Members recognized that firms' demand for funds had been at a high level on the whole, although some firms had started to repay loans. Members shared the view that financial institutions' lending attitudes had been accommodative. Members recognized that firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. Members approved the proposal by a majority vote. The Policy Board decided the text by a majority vote. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank considers that supporting the private sector's efforts on the issues from a central bank's standpoint will contribute to stabilizing the macroeconomy in the long run.