A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, April 27, 2020, from 9:00 a.m. The chairman first provided the following explanation for the purpose of changing the schedule of this Monetary Policy Meeting. The government had declared a state of emergency in response to the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Given this situation, it was appropriate for the Bank to shorten the duration of the Monetary Policy Meeting with a view to making the utmost efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The chairman then proposed that the meeting, which had been scheduled to be held on both the 27th and 28th of April, be shortened, and that it proceed with the intention of concluding by around noon on the 27th. The proposal was unanimously approved by the Policy Board members. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on March 16, 2020, the Bank had been conducting active purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. In addition, based mainly on the decisions made at the previous meeting, the Bank had conducted the following: the further ample supply of funds; measures to facilitate corporate financing; and active purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.07 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had declined significantly through the end of March, due mainly to demand for collateral, and since the start of April had been in the range of around minus 0.1 to minus 0.2 percent. As also seen with U.S. and European stock prices, the Nikkei Stock Average had risen in a situation of aggressive policy responses taken by the government and central bank of each country and region. Long-term interest rates had been more or less flat at around 0 percent throughout the intermeeting period, due mainly to the Bank's timely conduct of JGB purchases, despite temporarily rising somewhat in mid-March. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been appreciating against the U.S. dollar and the euro. Volatility of stock prices, bonds, and currencies had increased significantly in March, and since the start of April, it had decreased, despite remaining at a relatively high level. Liquidity had declined in the JGB market, as seen, for example, in a substantial decrease in the volume of spot and futures transactions in a situation where market participants had started to work split shifts. Overseas economies had become depressed rapidly, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Global Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for March had declined significantly for both manufacturing and services, and that for services in particular had been at a record low level. With regard to the outlook, until the spread of COVID-19 subsided, economic activity was likely to remain constrained and thus overseas economies were expected to remain depressed. Thereafter, their growth pace was likely to increase because pent-up demand and a recovery in production from the decline brought about by the spread of COVID-19 were expected to exert upward pressure on these economies, and the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies taken by each country and region were likely to materialize. That said, future developments were extremely unclear, as they could change depending on the timing of the spread of COVID-19 subsiding and on the magnitude of the impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the Chinese economy seemed to be showing signs of a pick-up following a plunge as the impact of the spread of COVID-19 had waned. Production, exports, private consumption, and fixed asset investment had started to pick up from a large decline that reflected the impact of the spread. Economic activity seemed to be picking up when looking at high-frequency data such as the amount of coal consumption -- a manufacturing-related indicator -- and the traffic congestion index of Chinese cities -- a nonmanufacturing-related indicator. The European economy had become depressed rapidly due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19. In the euro area, business and production activities had been constrained significantly due to strict preventive measures against the spread, including lockdowns of cities. Under such circumstances, while business sentiment as gauged by indicators such as the PMI had deteriorated substantially, the employment and income situation had suffered a serious impact and consumer sentiment also had worsened rapidly. economy had become depressed rapidly due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19. Preventive measures against the spread, such as restrictions on going outside and immigration/emigration, as well as orders to suspend business and production activities, had been taken in almost all of its regions. As a result, business sentiment had deteriorated substantially in both the manufacturing and nonmanufacturing sectors. In addition, there had been a serious impact on the employment and income situation, as seen in a surge in initial claims for unemployment insurance, and consumer sentiment also had worsened rapidly. Emerging economies other than China had become depressed rapidly due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19. In many of these countries and regions, economic activity had been constrained significantly as a result of preventive measures against the spread -- such as restrictions on going outside and immigration/emigration, as well as orders to suspend business and production activities -- that had been introduced or strengthened. Meanwhile, although outflows of funds had increased temporarily, financial conditions in emerging economies had started to stabilize recently, due in part to the effects of policy responses taken by each country, primarily the United States. With respect to overseas financial markets, market sentiment remained unstable, although it had improved somewhat, mainly reflecting aggressive monetary and fiscal policies taken by each country and region. and European stock prices had turned to an increase since late March. Credit spreads in the United States and Europe temporarily had widened significantly around late March, mainly for low-rated corporate bonds, and narrowed somewhat thereafter. and European long-term interest rates had risen temporarily but recently had been at low levels. Meanwhile, crude oil prices had fallen substantially, due mainly to a surge in crude inventories, although there had been moves among oil-producing economies toward reducing their production levels. Japan's economy had been in an increasingly severe situation, and it was likely to remain severe for the time being due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Exports and industrial production had declined with overseas economies becoming depressed rapidly. Looking at real exports by goods, although IT-related exports had been firm, mainly for parts for data centers and 5G-related equipment, a downtrend in exports of automobile-related goods and capital goods had been more evident recently, with demand falling significantly in advanced economies in particular. Inbound tourism demand had almost disappeared due to a sharp decline in the number of visitors to Japan. Private consumption had decreased significantly with the growing impact of the spread of COVID-19, mainly in services such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations. In relation to services demand, looking at people's movement by using mobile phone location data, the number of visitors at World Cultural Heritage Sites in Japan -- which appeared to indicate travel demand -- and the nighttime population of downtown areas in Tokyo -- which appeared to indicate demand for eating and drinking -- had declined substantially in March and then dropped further due to the declaration of a state of emergency on April 7. As for consumption of goods, there had been mixed developments; selling of goods such as automobiles, household electrical appliances, and clothes had decreased due to the impact of a decline in customers coming to stores, while selling at supermarkets had exceeded that for the same period last year owing to an expansion in so-called stay-at-home consumption. Business sentiment had deteriorated, reflecting intensifying downward pressure on corporate profits. The deceleration in the pace of increase in business fixed investment had become evident recently. With the growing impact of the spread of COVID-19, the employment and income situation had started to show some weakness, as seen in downtrends in the ratios for active job openings to applicants and for new job openings to applicants becoming more evident. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) had turned negative on a basis excluding the direct effects of the October 2019 consumption tax hike. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) were both at around 0.5 percent. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was expected to be somewhat weak for the time being, affected by the spread of COVID-19 and the decline in crude oil prices. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole but less so in terms of corporate financing, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. As for inflation expectations, relatively weak indicators had been observed. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at low levels on the whole while temporarily showing a rise in issuance rates in the market, mainly for CP. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Although the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of CP remained positive, supply-demand conditions in that market had been tightening. Growth in firms' demand for funds had been supported thus far by, for example, rises in demand for funds for business fixed investment and in that related to mergers and acquisitions of firms. Recently, however, there had been an increase in demand for funds that was mainly brought about by a decline in sales and the need to secure funds, both of which were due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19. Looking at the March 2020 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) and survey results released by the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, firms' financial positions, mainly of relatively small-sized firms, had worsened in the services industry -- such as accommodations as well as eating and drinking services -- and in the retail industry, primarily due to the sharp decline in sales reflecting the impact of the spread of COVID-19. As for financing of large firms, financial conditions had been tight, as seen, for example, in a surge in issuance rates for CP after the start of April amid strong demand for issuance in that market. With the aim of continuing to conduct purchases of ETFs and J-REITs in a smooth manner, the staff proposed that the Bank amend the existing purchasing method for these assets -- in which the share of the amount of each ETF and J-REIT to be purchased would roughly be proportionate to that of the total market value of each asset issued -- to one in which the share would roughly be proportionate to that of each asset's amount outstanding in circulation, obtained by subtracting the amount outstanding of the Bank's holdings of each ETF and J-REIT from the total market value of each asset issued. Amendment to 'Principal Terms and Conditions for Purchases of ETFs and J-REITs,' which represented the aforementioned staff report, was put to a vote. Members voted unanimously to approve the proposal. Members agreed that global financial markets remained nervous, as seen, for example, in the situation where liquidity had been low, although tension had been abating somewhat, partly due to aggressive policy responses taken by the government and central bank of each country and region. Many members expressed the recognition that a situation in which each market destabilized in succession had been avoided for now due to central banks' provision of ample funds and timely asset purchases. One of these members expressed the view that enhancement of U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations by six major central banks had been exerting its intended effects, and thus had been perceived favorably by the markets. A few members said that they were paying close attention to divergence that had begun to emerge between stock prices and the ongoing weakness in the real economy. Some members pointed out that, amid the global spread of COVID-19, there had been a decline in liquidity, such as in the bond market, due in part to a shift to market investment operations based on business continuity planning in many regions. Some members expressed the view that, although OPEC Plus, for example, had agreed on a coordinated reduction in oil production in response to a sharp fall in crude oil prices due to weak economic activity, a recovery in demand for petroleum was unlikely to take place for the time being. Members concurred that overseas economies had become depressed rapidly, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many members expressed the recognition that, with COVID-19 spreading rapidly worldwide, economic activity had been constrained significantly as a result of preventive measures taken by each country and region against the spread, such as restrictions on going outside and immigration/emigration, as well as orders to suspend business and production activities. Some members said that, although economic activity had resumed in China with the spread of COVID-19 subsiding in the country, the impact had become prolonged and significant as a result of the global spread. Some members pointed out that business and household sentiment in each country had been deteriorating rapidly to record low levels. Some members expressed the recognition that the global economy had been in an increasingly severe situation, as seen in the fact that demand had declined significantly, excluding some exceptions such as for IT-related goods and daily necessities, and that business conditions had deteriorated further, mainly in the services industry, which had been a driver for economic growth to date. A few members said that the Chinese economy seemed to be showing signs of a pick-up following a plunge with the spread of COVID-19 subsiding, as observed, for example, in a recovery in the operating rates of factories. Meanwhile, members agreed that the U.S. and European economies had become depressed rapidly due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19. Some members expressed the recognition that, in the United States, amid constrained economic activity due to a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, there had been a serious impact on the employment and income situation, as seen in a surge in initial claims for unemployment insurance. One member noted that close attention had been paid to the extent to which private consumption in the United States would be pushed down, mainly reflecting constraints on social life, deterioration in the employment situation, and the negative wealth effects stemming from the stock market. A different member expressed the view that, although discussions on reopening the economy had begun to take place in some areas of Europe and the United States, the prospect of the spread of COVID-19 subsiding was uncertain, and it was highly likely that strong downward pressure would continue to be exerted for the time being. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole but less so in terms of corporate financing, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. Some members pointed out that sales had declined due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19, and financial positions had deteriorated for all firms regardless of size. A few of these members noted that micro firms with a shortage of on-hand liquidity had started to run out of funds, and some firms had gone bankrupt because of issues regarding their financing. A few members pointed out that even large firms had been under increased stress in terms of financing, as evidenced, for example, by a surge in issuance rates for CP since April amid strong demand for issuance in that market, and by the funding rates of corporate bonds rising somewhat. the impact of the spread of COVID-19. Some members expressed the recognition that, in the United States, amid constrained economic activity due to a rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, there had been a serious impact on the employment and income situation, as seen in a surge in initial claims for unemployment insurance. Members shared the recognition that the employment and income situation had started to show some weakness. On this basis, some members pointed out that employment at this point did not show significant deterioration, but as COVID-19 exerted effects for a longer period, the impact would become larger through worsening business conditions and bankruptcies. Members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) were both at around 0.5 percent, and as for inflation expectations, relatively weak indicators had been observed. They shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to remain in a severe situation for the time being due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Members agreed that, despite being supported by the government's economic measures, domestic demand, mainly in terms of private consumption, was expected to remain weak, with economic activity being constrained due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19. As for prices, they shared the recognition that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI had been positive but was likely to be somewhat weak for the time being, mainly affected by the spread of COVID-19 and the decline in crude oil prices. Members shared the recognition that, while there were extremely high uncertainties over the outlook for economic activity, it was appropriate in the April Outlook Report to assume that the impact of the spread of COVID-19 on the economy would wane on a global basis through the second half of 2020. Members shared the view that, based on this assumption, the growth pace of overseas economies was likely to increase. They continued that this was because, from around the second half of 2020, pent-up demand and a recovery in production from the decline brought about by the spread of COVID-19 were expected to exert upward pressure on these economies, and the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies taken by each country and region were likely to materialize. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy also was expected to improve as the impact of the spread waned at home and abroad. They shared the view that exports were likely to head toward an increase again with the growth pace of overseas economies rising, and that domestic demand was expected to turn toward a pick-up and then increase, supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, as well as through the expected materialization of pent-up demand. As for the outlook for prices, members shared the view that, with the economy improving, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase gradually. One member said that, taking into account future economic developments and the adaptive formation of inflation expectations, it was unlikely that the inflation rate would steadily approach 2 percent even in fiscal 2022, which was the final year of the projection period. A different member expressed the view that a rapid economic contraction not seen since the Great Depression in the 1930s might occur in the short run, although it depended on the consequences of the impact of the spread of COVID-19, and in this situation, achievement of the price stability target would be delayed. One member stated that, as the decline in the economic growth rate was likely to put downward pressure on the output gap and inflation expectations, coupled with a significant decline in crude oil prices, the inflation rate was expected to be in negative territory through fiscal 2021 and return to slightly positive territory thereafter. Members shared the recognition that global financial and capital markets had been unstable and corporate financing had been affected globally, both reflecting the spread of COVID-19. However, members shared the view that, in a situation where the government and central bank of each country and region including Japan had been making responses aggressively with a view to maintaining stability in financial markets and ensuring smooth corporate financing, it was expected that financial conditions would remain accommodative and further downward pressure on the real economy from the financial side would be avoided. Members shared the view that the outlook was extremely unclear, as it could change depending on the timing of the spread of COVID-19 subsiding and on the magnitude of the impact on domestic and overseas economies. Some members pointed out that, even if the spread almost subsided, there was a risk that the movement of people and goods would not recover due to concern about recurrence of the pandemic, as well as a risk that the behavior of households and firms would become more cautious due to the decrease in income or deterioration in financial positions. One member said that, as there were extremely high uncertainties over the medium- to long-term outlook for Japan's economy at this point, it was possible to assume both optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. Members also agreed that this outlook for economic activity and prices was based mainly on the assumption that, while the impact of the spread of COVID-19 remained, firms' and households' medium- to long-term growth expectations would not decline substantially and the smooth functioning of financial intermediation would be ensured with financial system stability being maintained, although this assumption entailed high uncertainties. One member pointed out that structural changes could arise in people's demand behavior triggered by the spread of COVID-19, and in this situation, there was a possibility that firms' and households' medium- to long-term growth expectations would decline. In response, one member said that downward pressure on Japan's economy was attributable largely to constrained economic activity that resulted from preventive measures against the spread of COVID-19, and therefore this short-term severe economic downturn did not necessarily determine medium- to long-term growth path. Some members expressed the recognition that the functioning of financial intermediation could weaken, due mainly to a rise in banks' credit costs, if the impact of COVID-19 led to prolonged deterioration in the real economy and a decline in firms' creditworthiness. One member commented that, given that financial institutions supported firms of which financial positions had deteriorated due to the impact of COVID-19, developments in the financial system should be monitored closely with caution, keeping in mind the possibility that a certain proportion of loans would become nonperforming. Members concurred that, if risks to economic activity materialized, prices also were likely to be affected accordingly. In addition, they shared the recognition that it was necessary to pay attention to developments in international commodity prices, including those of crude oil, and to the effects of future fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on prices. Based on this discussion, members shared the view that, with regard to the risk balance, risks to both economic activity and prices were skewed to the downside, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19. Members concurred that it was appropriate for the Bank to further enhance monetary easing, given that, due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19 at home and abroad, Japan's economy had been in an increasingly severe situation and financial conditions had been less accommodative in terms of corporate financing, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. Many members said that what was most important was to protect employment, businesses, and people's livelihoods until the spread almost subsided, and it was necessary for the Bank to conduct monetary policy with a view to doing its utmost to ensure smooth financing and maintaining stability in financial markets. One member noted that further easing measures, mainly to provide liquidity, were necessary this time as well, and it also was important to fully prepare for a possible further worsening of the situation. A different member commented that policy authorities must act decisively in order to avoid a second Great Depression. One member pointed out that, with regard to policy responses, it was essential to maintain a cooperative framework between the government and the central bank as well as among major central banks, mainly by closely exchanging information and having a shared recognition of challenges. Members expressed the recognition that the Bank should increase purchases of CP and corporate bonds and strengthen measures such as the special funds-supplying operations, which had been introduced and become effective in March, given that there had been increased stress in terms of corporate financing. A few members said that, when increasing purchases of CP and corporate bonds, the terms and conditions should be relaxed with regard to, for example, the maximum amounts outstanding of a single issuer's CP and corporate bonds to be purchased. As for the strengthening of the special funds-supplying operations, a few members expressed the view that the Bank should expand the range of eligible collateral and increase the number of eligible counterparties, with a view to firmly supporting financial institutions to further fulfill the functioning of financial intermediation for a wide range of private sectors, mainly in terms of firms. In addition, some members expressed the opinion that the Bank should consider devising measures to support financing, mainly of small and medium-sized firms, taking account, for example, of the government's programs such as those in its emergency economic measures. As measures that would contribute to maintaining stability in financial markets, some members expressed the recognition that, taking also into account the impact of the increase in the amount of issuance of JGBs and T-Bills in response to the government's emergency economic measures, it was desirable to conduct further active purchases of JGBs and T-Bills, with a view to stabilizing the entire yield curve at a low level. One member said that the Bank should purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit to achieve the target level of the interest rate under yield curve control. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of March 16, 2020, for release on May 1. The Bank will purchase JGBs so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the text of "The Bank's View" by a unanimous vote. It was confirmed that "The Bank's View" would be released immediately after the meeting. It also was confirmed that the full text of the Outlook Report would be made public on April 28. While doing so, the yields may move upward and downward to some extent mainly depending on developments in economic activity and prices. The Bank will conduct purchases in a flexible manner so that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about 80 trillion yen. Japan's economy has been in an increasingly severe situation due to the impact of the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) at home and abroad. Although policy responses taken by the government and the Bank of Japan have been exerting some positive effects, financial conditions have been less accommodative in terms of corporate financing, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. Given these developments, the Bank judged it appropriate to further enhance monetary easing through (1) an increase in purchases of CP and corporate bonds, (2) strengthening of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), and (3) further active purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) and treasury discount bills (T-Bills). The Bank will take these measures with a view to doing its utmost to ensure smooth financing, such as of financial institutions and firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to significantly increase the maximum amount of additional purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct purchases with the upper limit of the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total. In addition, the maximum amounts outstanding of a single issuer's CP and corporate bonds to be purchased will be raised substantially, and the maximum remaining maturity of corporate bonds to be purchased will be extended to 5 years. With regard to the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Corporate Financing regarding the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), which was introduced and became effective in March, the Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to (1) expand the range of eligible collateral to private debt in general, including household debt (from about 8 trillion yen to about 23 trillion yen as of end-March 2020), (2) increase the number of eligible counterparties (to mainly include member financial institutions of central organizations of financial cooperatives), and (3) apply a positive interest rate of 0.1 percent to the outstanding balances of current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank that correspond to the amounts outstanding of loans provided through this operation. The Bank decided to strengthen this operation with a view to firmly supporting financial institutions to further fulfill the functioning of financial intermediation for a wide range of private sectors, mainly in terms of firms. In addition, with the aim of further supporting financing mainly of small and medium-sized firms, the chairman instructed the staff to swiftly consider a new measure to provide funds to financial institutions, taking account, for example, of the government's programs to support financing such as those in its emergency economic measures, and report back at a later MPM. In a situation where the liquidity in the bond market remains low, the increase in the amount of issuance of JGBs and T-Bills in response to the government's emergency economic measures will have an impact on the market. Taking this into account, the Bank will conduct further active purchases of both JGBs and T-Bills for the time being, with a view to maintaining stability in the bond market and stabilizing the entire yield curve at a low level. The Bank decided to set the following guidelines for market operations as well as for purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). The Bank will actively purchase ETFs and J-REITs for the time being so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces with the upper limit of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively. The Bank will continue with "Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control," aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. The Bank recognizes that its current powerful monetary easing measures, including the ones decided today, will contribute to supporting economic and financial activities, coupled with various measures by the Japanese government as well as those by the government and central bank of each country and region in response to the spread of COVID-19. Voting for the action: Mr. KURODA Haruhiko, Mr. AMAMIYA Masayoshi, Mr. WAKATABE Masazumi, Mr. FUNO Yukitoshi, Mr. SAKURAI Makoto, Ms. MASAI Takako, Mr. SUZUKI Hitoshi, and Mr. ADACHI Seiji. Voting against the action: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, in response to a possible increase in downward pressure on prices and with the aim of alleviating firms' and households' interest burden. Kataoka dissented, considering that, given the severe impact of COVID-19, further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target. The maximum amounts of additional purchases of CP and corporate bonds will be increased from 1 trillion yen to 7.5 trillion yen for each asset. Other than the additional purchases, the existing amounts outstanding of CP and corporate bonds will be maintained at about 2 trillion yen and about 3 trillion yen, respectively. The additional purchases will continue until the end of September 2020. A positive interest will be applied from the May 2020 reserve maintenance period (from May 16 to June 15) onward. Twice as much as the amounts outstanding of the loans will continue to be included in the Macro Add-on Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) will be conducted until the end of September 2020. In case of a rapid increase in the yields, the Bank will purchase JGBs promptly and appropriately. As for the guideline for purchases of ETFs and J-REITs, in principle, "the Bank will purchase these assets so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. With a view to lowering risk premia of asset prices in an appropriate manner, the Bank may increase or decrease the amount of purchases depending on market conditions. The Bank will increase the maximum amounts outstanding of a single issuer's CP and corporate bonds to be purchased from the current 100 billion yen to 500 billion yen and 300 billion yen, respectively. The Bank will increase the maximum share of the Bank's holdings of CP and corporate bonds within the total amount outstanding of issuance by a single issuer from the current 25 percent to 50 percent and 30 percent, respectively. The Bank will extend the remaining maturity of corporate bonds to be purchased from the current 1 year or more and up to 3 years to 1 year or more and up to 5 years. The amount will be calculated based mainly on lending that eligible financial institutions conduct by making use of the government's programs to reduce or exempt guarantee fees and interest rates of credit guaranteed loans, which are included in its emergency economic measures. Loans will be provided against all pooled collateral. The interest rate on loans will be 0 percent. Twice as much as the amounts outstanding of the loans will be included in the Macro Add-on Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. A positive interest rate of 0.1 percent will be applied to the outstanding balances of current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank that correspond to the amounts outstanding of loans provided through this measure.