A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, June 16, 2025, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:36 p.m., and on Tuesday, June 17, from 9:00 a.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on April 30 and May 1, 2025. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.476 to 0.481 percent. Meanwhile, the Bank had conducted Japanese government bond (JGB) purchases of about 4.1 trillion yen per month in accordance with the JGB reduction plan decided at the July 2024 meeting. In the money market, the uncollateralized overnight call rate had been at around 0.5 percent. The general collateral (GC) repo rate had been at around the same level as the uncollateralized overnight call rate on the whole. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased slightly. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had increased in line with U.S. stock prices. Yields on 10-year JGBs had increased in line with U.S. long-term interest rates. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had temporarily appreciated against the U.S. dollar, on the back of dollar selling that was partly due to growing concerns over a deterioration in fiscal conditions in the United States; however, it had depreciated over the intermeeting period along with an improvement in market sentiment. The yen had also depreciated against the euro. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole, although some weakness had been seen in part, reflecting trade and other policies in each jurisdiction. economy had grown moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. European economies remained relatively weak on the whole, mainly in manufacturing, although there had been some front-loading of exports in view of the imposition of tariffs. As for the Chinese economy, despite government support, the pace of improvement in the economy had been on a slowing trend, with downward pressure mainly from the increase in tariffs and from adjustments in the real estate market. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole. As for the outlook, although trade and other policies in each jurisdiction were expected to lead to a slowdown in overseas economies, they were projected to see a gradual acceleration in their growth rate thereafter, and then grow moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the future course of policy conduct in each jurisdiction, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, market sentiment had improved, mainly due to progress in negotiations between jurisdictions on trade policies and to solid economic indicators in the United States, although attention continued to be drawn to uncertainties over the outlook for the global economy. More recently, market sentiment had become cautious temporarily, reflecting heightened geopolitical risks in the Middle East. long-term interest rates had risen considerably, partly due to heightened vigilance against a future deterioration in supply and demand conditions in sovereign bonds, as market expectations for policy interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve had receded. European long-term interest rates had increased slightly in line with U.S. long-term interest rates. With market sentiment improving, U.S. stock prices had risen, partly reflecting solid corporate results; more recently, however, they had declined slightly due to heightened geopolitical risks in the Middle East. European stock prices had fluctuated in both directions in line with U.S. stock prices. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had appreciated, against the background of an improvement in risk sentiment that was mainly because of an agreement between the United States and China to reduce tariff rates. There had been a significant temporary increase in crude oil prices due to heightened geopolitical risks in the Middle East. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. A virtuous cycle from income to spending had been maintained in the corporate and household sectors, as the impact of U.S. tariff policy had not clearly materialized thus far. Regarding the outlook, economic growth was likely to moderate as trade and other policies in each jurisdiction led to a slowdown in overseas economies and to a decline in domestic corporate profits and other factors, although factors such as accommodative financial conditions were expected to provide support. Exports and industrial production continued to be more or less flat as a trend, although there had been some front-loading due to the increase in U.S. Regarding the outlook, exports and industrial production were likely to be generally under increasing downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in overseas economies, while the front-loading due to the increase in U.S. tariffs and a reactionary decline were likely to be seen. Corporate profits had been on an improving trend. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, growth momentum in business fixed investment was highly likely to slow. This was because, although moves to clear order backlogs and labor-saving investment to address labor shortages were expected to provide some support, a deterioration in the profit environment and heightened uncertainties were likely to push down business fixed investment. Private consumption maintained its moderate increasing trend against the background of an improvement in the employment and income situation, despite weakness in consumer sentiment due to the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased for the January-March quarter of 2025 on a quarter-on-quarter basis and continued to increase for April, relative to that quarter, mainly led by firmness in services consumption. Based on anecdotal information from firms, statistics published by industry organizations, and high-frequency indicators, private consumption since May seemed to have been on a moderate increasing trend, particularly in services, although there continued to be some firms that had pointed to consumers' increased thriftiness, which partly reflected a surge in rice prices. Consumer sentiment remained on a deteriorating trend, as heightened uncertainties regarding trade policies had recently exerted downward pressure, in addition to the rise in food prices, such as rice prices. Regarding the outlook, although private consumption was expected to continue to be affected for the time being by the deterioration in consumer sentiment stemming from the rise in food prices, it was projected to maintain its moderate increasing trend, as wage increases as a result of the 2025 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations continued, together with a rise in employment. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. The number of employed persons continued to increase steadily, mainly for regular employees. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly. With regard to the outlook, employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase for the time being, supported by the rise in nominal wages reflecting the 2025 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Thereafter, as downward pressure on special cash earnings (bonuses) was likely to strengthen due to a deterioration in corporate profits, the pace of increase in employee income was projected to decelerate. As for prices, in international commodity markets, crude oil prices had declined, stemming from speculation over the easing of supply and demand conditions of oil due to an increase in output by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil-producing countries, while prices of copper and wheat had been more or less flat. The year-on-year rate of increase in the producer price index (PPI) had been in the range of 4.0-4.5 percent recently, but had declined to the range of 3.0-3.5 percent for May due to the effects of the decline in crude oil prices and the yen's appreciation. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high, being at around 3.0-3.5 percent recently, mainly on the back of a rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 3.5 percent recently, as moves to pass on wage increases to selling prices continued, and as there had been effects of the past rise in import prices and of the rise in food prices, such as rice prices. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, in the short run, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was likely to remain at around the current level due to upward pressure from the rise in food prices, such as rice prices, and from a dissipation of the effects of the government's measures to reduce the household burden of higher energy prices. Thereafter, the rate of increase was expected to decelerate toward the end of 2025, albeit with fluctuations reflecting energy prices, as the impact of the rise in food prices was likely to dissipate. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. In the corporate bond market, issuance conditions remained favorable on the whole, as developments such as a resumption of postponed issuance had been seen, although issuance spreads had expanded somewhat compared with the level before U.S. reciprocal tariffs were announced. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 2.5 percent; that in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The pace of increase in the number of bankruptcies of firms had slowed. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been at around 0.5 percent. Members discussed monetary policy based on the above assessment of economic and financial developments. Members concurred that, in principle, long-term interest rates were to be formed in financial markets, and that it was appropriate for the Bank to reduce its purchase amount of JGBs in a predictable manner. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to extend the time frame for its reduction plan to improve the functioning of the JGB markets. Members agreed that it was appropriate for the Bank to cut down the purchase amount by about 400 billion yen each calendar quarter. Members recognized that it was important to strike a balance between predictability and stability in the JGB markets when reducing the purchase amount. Members agreed to conduct an interim assessment of the JGB reduction plan at the June Monetary Policy Meeting. Members recognized that the functioning of the JGB markets had started to recover but was still on its way to recovery. Members pointed out that a rapid reduction in the purchase amount could have unforeseen impacts on market stability. Members recognized the need to consider financial institutions' capacity for interest rate risk-taking when reducing the purchase amount of JGBs. Members agreed that it was important to ensure stability while formulating the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs. Members pointed out the need to consider past supply levels when reducing the purchase amount of JGBs. Members recognized the importance of clear and thorough communication when reducing the purchase amount of JGBs. Members agreed to conduct an interim assessment of the JGB reduction plan in June 2026. Members recognized the importance of avoiding adverse effects on economic activity and prices due to rapid fluctuations in interest rates when reducing the purchase amount of JGBs. Members recognized the importance of increasing the capacity of financial markets to absorb shocks when reducing the purchase amount of JGBs. Members agreed that it was important to ensure stability while formulating the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.5 percent. The Bank decided, by an 8-1 majority vote, on a plan to reduce the amount of its monthly outright purchases of JGBs so that it will be about 2 trillion yen in January-March 2027. The proposals submitted by the chairman were put to a vote in the order of Tamura Naoki's proposal, followed by the chairman's proposal. Tamura Naoki's proposal on the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs was defeated by a majority vote. The chairman's proposal on the plan for the reduction of the purchase amount of JGBs was decided by a majority vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of April 30 and May 1, 2025, for release on June 20.