Regarding the fund-provisioning against loans that financial institutions make on their own ("non-government-supported loans") in response to COVID-19, mainly to small and medium-sized firms, the Bank will extend the implementation period by six months under the current terms and conditions. Regarding the fund-provisioning against loans that financial institutions make on the back of government support ("government-supported loans") in response to COVID-19, mainly to small and medium-sized firms, the Bank will extend the implementation period by six months under the revised terms and conditions. The Bank will complete the fund-provisioning against private debt pledged as collateral, which mainly consists of debt issued by large firms and housing loans, at the end of March 2022 as scheduled. The Bank will complete its additional purchases of CP and corporate bonds at the end of March 2022 as scheduled. From April 2022 onward, it will purchase about the same amount of CP and corporate bonds as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, so that the amounts outstanding of these assets will decrease gradually to the pre-pandemic levels, namely, about 2 trillion yen for CP and about 3 trillion yen for corporate bonds. The Bank decided to set the guidelines for market operations and purchases of assets other than Japanese government bonds (JGBs) as follows. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. Japan's economy has picked up as a trend, although it has remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Overseas economies have recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. In this situation, exports and industrial production have continued to increase as a trend, despite remaining weak due to the effects of supply-side constraints. In addition, corporate profits and business sentiment have continued to improve on the whole. Business fixed investment has picked up, although weakness has been seen in some industries. The employment and income situation has remained weak due to the impact of COVID-19. Private consumption has picked up gradually, with downward pressure stemming from COVID-19, particularly on services consumption, waning somewhat. Housing investment has picked up. Public investment has been relatively weak, albeit at a high level. Financial conditions have been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions has remained in some segments. On the price front, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) has been at around 0 percent, mainly due to a rise in energy prices, despite being affected by a reduction in mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations have picked up. Japan's economy is likely to recover as downward pressure stemming from COVID-19 on services consumption and the effects of supply-side constraints wane, while being supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. Thereafter, as a virtuous cycle from income to spending intensifies in the overall economy, including the household sector, Japan's economy is projected to continue growing at a pace, albeit slower, above its potential growth rate. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) is likely to increase moderately in positive territory in the short run, reflecting the rise in energy prices. Thereafter, albeit with fluctuations due to temporary factors, it is projected to increase gradually as a trend, mainly on the back of improvement in the output gap and a rise in medium- to long-term inflation expectations. Concerning risks to the outlook, the course of COVID-19 and its impact on domestic and overseas economies continue to warrant attention. In particular, there are high uncertainties over whether the resumption of economic activity can progress smoothly while public health is being protected. Attention also should be paid to a risk that the effects of supply-side constraints seen in some areas will be amplified or prolonged. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) purchases of ETFs and J-REITs with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. Kataoka dissented, considering that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target.