A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Tuesday, July 14, 2020, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:31 p.m., and on Wednesday, July 15, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on June 15 and 16, 2020, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted purchases of CP and corporate bonds and the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) to support financing, mainly of firms, under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). In addition, the Bank had provided ample yen and foreign currency funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and the conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and had actively purchased exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.02 to minus 0.07 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been at around minus 0.1 percent. The Nikkei Stock Average had risen somewhat, mainly driven by IT-related stocks. Long-term interest rates temporarily had risen somewhat on the back of an increase in JGB issuance; however, they had been at around 0 percent throughout the intermeeting period, due mainly to the Bank's active JGB purchases. After the state of emergency was lifted, liquidity in the JGB market had shown some improvement, such as in trading volume, but remained at a low level in a situation where interest rates had been stable. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been more or less flat against both the U.S. dollar and the euro. Overseas economies had been depressed significantly, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, although they had shown signs of heading toward a pick-up. In many economies, economic activity had resumed since strict public health measures, such as restrictions on going outside and suspension in business and production activities, had been eased gradually. However, economic activities of households and firms remained constrained due to vigilance against COVID-19, as well as to a deterioration in the employment situation and a decline in corporate profits, both of which had been seen on a global basis. With regard to the outlook, as the impact of COVID-19 waned, overseas economies were likely to recover from being depressed significantly, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies, but the pace was expected to be only moderate. Nevertheless, a brake was not put yet on the increasing number of confirmed cases worldwide and there were extremely high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and the magnitude of their impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had been depressed significantly, although there had been some signs of heading toward a pick-up. Such signs had been seen in private consumption and housing investment, mainly because the strict public health measures had been lifted gradually; however, they had been at substantially low levels on the whole due to the continued severe employment situation, as well as to vigilance against COVID-19 reflecting such factors as the recent surge in the number of confirmed cases, particularly in the southern and western states. Business fixed investment had been depressed substantially, mainly reflecting the decline in corporate profits. The European economy had been depressed significantly, although there had been some signs of heading toward a pick-up. In the euro area, such signs had been seen in private consumption, mainly because the strict public health measures had been lifted gradually; however, it had been at a substantially low level on the whole, due in part to vigilance against COVID-19 and deterioration in the employment situation to date. The Chinese economy had picked up due to the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies and the materialization of pent-up demand. Exports had increased, partly backed by a significant rise in those related to textile products, including masks, and to personal computers. Private consumption had picked up on the whole owing to the materialization of pent-up demand, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment had picked up due to the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies. Emerging economies other than China had plunged due to the impact of COVID-19. The NIEs and the ASEAN countries had been depressed significantly on the whole, although there had been some signs of heading toward a pick-up. The economies of India, Brazil, and Russia also had been depressed significantly amid the rapid spread of COVID-19. With respect to overseas financial markets, stock prices in the United States and Europe had risen somewhat, mainly driven by IT-related stocks, and those in China also had increased, reflecting expectations for a pick-up in economic activity. Currencies had been depreciating, such as in Central and South America, where COVID-19 continued to spread. Long-term interest rates in the United States had declined somewhat due to vigilance against COVID-19, while those in Europe had been flat. Meanwhile, crude oil prices were more or less unchanged. Japan's economy had been in an extremely severe situation with the impact of COVID-19 remaining at home and abroad, although economic activity had resumed gradually. With this resumption, it was likely to improve gradually from the second half of this year through the materialization of pent-up demand and supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures. Exports and industrial production had declined substantially with overseas economies being depressed significantly. Looking at real exports by goods, automobile-related exports had declined substantially, mainly against the background of a rapid decline in global automobile sales, particularly in the United States and Europe. Capital goods exports also continued to decline clearly, reflecting a global postponement of business fixed investment. On the other hand, the decline in IT-related exports had been relatively small, supported by firm developments in parts for data centers and in those related to personal computers. As entry restrictions remained in place, there continued to be almost no visitors to Japan. As for the outlook, exports and production were likely to be at low levels for the time being, due mainly to the depression in overseas economies stemming from the impact of COVID-19; however, they were projected to stop declining and then head toward a pick-up as the impact waned worldwide. Although private consumption had decreased significantly, mainly in services such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations, it had shown signs of a pick-up recently. Services consumption had declined substantially, mainly for selective expenditures such as dining-out and travel. This reflected self-restraint from going outside, temporary store closures, and shorter operating hours, all of which were due to the impact of COVID-19. Looking at data for May, with the state of emergency lifted, dining-out had turned to a slight pick-up while both domestic and overseas travel remained weak to a considerable degree. Meanwhile, high-frequency data suggested that the number of people going out, which is strongly correlated with developments in selective expenditures for services, had picked up moderately since the start of June. As for consumption of goods, selling of automobiles had turned to a pick-up in June, and that of household electrical appliances continued to do so, partly due to the provision of special cash payments. On the other hand, the rates of increase in food and daily necessities -- which had remained firm owing to an expansion in stay-at-home consumption -- had decelerated to date, due partly to the shift to dining-out. Regarding the outlook, private consumption was likely to remain at a low level for the time being, mainly for services consumption, primarily reflecting vigilance against COVID-19. However, along with a phased reopening of businesses, it was expected to pick up moderately, supported by various income support measures and demand stimulus measures. Corporate profits and business sentiment had deteriorated due to the impact of COVID-19. The diffusion index (DI) for business conditions in the June 2020 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) had worsened significantly regardless of industry and size; the DI had declined substantially, as seen, for example, in a record plunge in that for all industries and enterprises from the previous survey. Business fixed investment had been more or less flat. Looking at business fixed investment plans in June, such investment in all industries and enterprises including financial institutions and holding companies at this point was expected to remain positive on an annual basis, partly backed by firm software investment. However, the rate of increase was the lowest since fiscal 2009 among past figures for the June surveys. Construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment, of which many projects are medium- to long-term ones -- had been more or less flat, while a declining trend had become evident recently in machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment, which can be postponed relatively easily. Regarding the outlook, business fixed investment was expected to decrease, mainly in industries affected strongly by substantial declines in exports and consumption. Thereafter, it was likely to pick up as the impact of COVID-19 waned. With the continuing impact of COVID-19, the employment and income situation had been weak. The employment conditions DI in June showed that the perception of labor shortage had diminished substantially for both manufacturing and non-manufacturing. According to the Labour Force Survey, the year-on-year rate of change in the number of employees for May had moved into further negative territory from the previous month, registering minus 1.2 percent, as the number of non-regular employees such as part-time workers had declined clearly due to the impact of COVID-19. The year-on-year rate of change in nominal wages for May had fallen into further negative territory from the previous month, marking about minus 3 percent, due mainly to the rate of decline in non-scheduled cash earnings having accelerated. Employee income was projected to decline clearly for the time being, affected by the depressed economic activity and a fall in corporate profits, both reflecting the impact of COVID-19. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was at around 0 percent, and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) was at around 0.5 percent. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the past decline in crude oil prices. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. Inflation expectations had weakened somewhat. Firms' financial positions had deteriorated, mainly reflecting a decline in sales due to the impact of COVID-19. However, the environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. In this situation, the DI for financial positions of small enterprises had shown signs of a pick-up recently. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at low levels. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' demand for funds had increased, mainly reflecting a decline in sales and an increase in precautionary demand, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19. Looking at developments in corporate financing, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 6.5 percent, and that in the amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at a relatively high level that exceeded 10 percent. The year-on-year rate of increase in the monetary base had been at around 6 percent, and that in the money stock had been in the range of 7.0-7.5 percent. Members shared the view that the European economy had been depressed significantly, although there had been some signs of heading toward a pick-up. Members concurred that the Chinese economy had picked up due to the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies and the materialization of pent-up demand. Members shared the recognition that emerging economies had plunged due to the impact of COVID-19. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so, as seen in deterioration in firms' financial positions. Members discussed the state of Japan's economy. Members concurred that the economy had been in an extremely severe situation with the impact of COVID-19 remaining at home and abroad, although economic activity had resumed gradually. Members shared the recognition that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was at around 0 percent, and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) was at around 0.5 percent, while inflation expectations had weakened somewhat. Members agreed that -- regarding the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's economic activity -- the economy, with economic activity resuming, was likely to improve gradually from the second half of this year; however, the pace of improvement was expected to be only moderate while the impact of COVID-19 remained worldwide. Members shared the view that domestic demand was likely to see an increase in its level as the impact of COVID-19 waned but be only at a low level while it remained. Members agreed that, as the impact of COVID-19 waned, overseas economies were likely to recover from being depressed significantly, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies, but the pace was expected to be only moderate. Members shared the view that risks to economic activity were skewed to the downside, mainly due to the impact of COVID-19. Members shared the recognition that it was necessary to pay attention to developments in international commodity prices, including those of crude oil, and to the effects of future fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on prices. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of June 15 and 16, 2020, for release on July 20. The Policy Board approved unanimously the dates of the Monetary Policy Meetings to be held in 2021 and agreed to make this public after the meeting. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent. The Bank will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeded 2 percent and stayed above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue with 'Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control,' aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) active purchases of ETFs and J-REITs. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, in response to a possible increase in downward pressure on prices and with the aim of alleviating firms' and households' interest burden. Kataoka dissented, considering that, given the severe impact of COVID-19, further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target. In case of a rapid increase in the yields, the Bank will purchase JGBs promptly and appropriately. As for the guideline for purchases of ETFs and J-REITs, in principle, 'the Bank will purchase these assets so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively.'