At the Monetary Policy Meeting held today, the Policy Board of the Bank of Japan decided, by a 7-2 majority vote, to set the following guideline for money market operations for the intermeeting period: The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.5 percent. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to sell these assets to the market in accordance with the fundamental principles for their disposal, which include the principle to avoid inducing destabilizing effects on the financial markets. Japan's economy has recovered moderately, although some weakness has been seen in part. Overseas economies have grown moderately on the whole, although some weakness has been seen in part, reflecting trade and other policies in each jurisdiction. Exports and industrial production have continued to be more or less flat as a trend, although there has been some front-loading and a subsequent reactionary decline, due to the increase in U.S. Corporate profits have remained at high levels on the whole, although downward effects due to tariffs have been seen in manufacturing. Business fixed investment has been on a moderate increasing trend. Private consumption has been resilient against the background of an improvement in the employment and income situation, despite weakness in consumer sentiment due to the impact of price rises and other factors. Housing investment has been relatively weak. Public investment has been more or less flat. Financial conditions have been accommodative. On the price front, with moves to pass on wage increases to selling prices continuing, the year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) has been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent recently, due to the effects of the rise in food prices, such as rice prices, and other factors. Inflation expectations have risen moderately. Japan's economic growth is likely to moderate, as trade and other policies in each jurisdiction lead to a slowdown in overseas economies and to a decline in domestic corporate profits and other factors, although factors such as accommodative financial conditions are expected to provide support. Thereafter, Japan's economic growth rate is likely to rise, with overseas economies returning to a moderate growth path. With regard to the CPI (all items less fresh food), the effects of the recent rise in food prices, such as rice prices, are expected to wane. Meanwhile, underlying CPI inflation is likely to be sluggish, mainly due to the deceleration in the economy. Thereafter, however, underlying CPI inflation is expected to increase gradually, since it is projected that a sense of labor shortage will grow as the economic growth rate rises, and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations will rise. In the second half of the projection period of the July Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices, underlying CPI inflation is likely to be at a level that is generally consistent with the price stability target. There are various risks to the outlook. In particular, it remains highly uncertain how trade and other policies in each jurisdiction will evolve and how overseas economic activity and prices will react to them. It is therefore necessary to pay due attention to the impact of these developments on financial and foreign exchange markets and on Japan's economic activity and prices. Voting for the action: UEDA Kazuo, HIMINO Ryozo, UCHIDA Shinichi, NOGUCHI Asahi, NAKAGAWA Junko, KOEDA Junko, and MASU Kazuyuki. Voting against the action: TAKATA Hajime and TAMURA Naoki. Takata Hajime considered that there had been a shift away from the deflationary norm and the price stability target had been more or less achieved. Tamura Naoki considered that, with risks to prices becoming more skewed to the upside, the Bank should set the policy interest rate a little closer to the neutral rate. They proposed that the Bank set the guideline for money market operations as follows: the Bank would encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.75 percent. The proposals were defeated by majority votes.