A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, December 19, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:50 p.m., and on Tuesday, December 20, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on October 27 and 28, 2022, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for fixed-rate purchase operations for consecutive days decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.25 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. Meanwhile, it had added and changed the CTD issues applicable to fixed-rate purchase operations and to the relaxation of the terms and conditions for the Securities Lending Facility (SLF), given the rollover of JGB futures contracts. In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. However, the functioning of bond markets had deteriorated, particularly in terms of relative relationships among interest rates of bonds with different maturities and arbitrage relationships between spot and futures markets. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In addition, it had conducted the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing) to support financing, mainly of firms. Furthermore, with a view to meeting a wider range of financing needs, the Bank had conducted fund-provisioning under the Funds-Supplying Operations against Pooled Collateral without setting an upper limit. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.052 to minus 0.079 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.084 to minus 0.119 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had decreased somewhat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had increased, generally in line with U.S. stock prices. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against the U.S. dollar, mainly due to the decline in U.S. interest rates. Meanwhile, the yen had been more or less flat against the euro throughout the intermeeting period. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. Supply-side constraints continued to wane globally and this had underpinned production activities around the world; however, in addition to downward pressure on advanced economies stemming from such factors as elevated inflation and policy interest rate hikes by central banks, as well as the impact of the situation surrounding Ukraine, such pressure on the Chinese economy had intensified since the previous meeting, mainly for private consumption, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence. As for the outlook, although the effects of supply-side constraints were likely to wane, overseas economies were expected to slow, albeit with variation across countries and regions, reflecting various downward pressures. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in global inflationary pressure, the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine, and the path of COVID-19 in China and its impact. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy remained on a decelerating trend in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, although private consumption had been solid. Despite downward pressure due to price rises remaining, private consumption had been solid, partly owing to the effects of discount sales, with household savings that had accumulated to date and firm labor market conditions continuing to act as underpinning factors. Housing investment had decreased in reflection of the policy interest rate hikes. Business fixed investment continued to see a small increase. Production continued to rise as a trend, albeit with weakness seen in part. Business sentiment kept improving on the whole, but the pace of improvement had paused in the manufacturing industry. Regarding prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator maintained a high increase of about 6 percent, mainly due to the effects of tight supply and demand conditions, although it had decelerated somewhat from its peak. European economies had recovered moderately; however, slowdowns had been observed as they continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. Private consumption had seen a slowdown as the effects of the resumption of economic activity had peaked out and as a rise in inflation and policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB) continued. Exports and production had been more or less flat on the whole, albeit with fluctuations. Business fixed investment had improved as a trend. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of increase in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been at a very high level of around 10 percent, mainly due to a rise in food and energy prices. The Chinese economy had slowed, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence. Private consumption had decreased due to downward pressure from the resurgence. Exports had decreased, mainly affected by inventory adjustments for some IT-related goods and for consumer goods in advanced economies, as well as by the production situation reflecting the COVID-19 resurgence. Fixed asset investment had increased moderately on the whole, although real estate investment continued to decrease. In this situation, production had slowed because the resurgence had led to a deceleration in domestic demand and affected corporate activities and the logistics situation in part. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole, albeit with weakness seen in part. The NIEs and the ASEAN economies had recovered on the whole as domestic demand continued to improve with progress in the resumption of economic activity, although exports had been somewhat weak. With respect to overseas financial markets, while long-term interest rates in the United States had declined significantly, those in Europe had risen. Stock prices in the United States and Europe had increased, mainly reflecting the decline in U.S. interest rates and the easing of concern in Europe over energy supplies for this winter. Currencies in emerging economies had generally appreciated, as demand for the U.S. dollar had decreased, mainly reflecting the decline in U.S. interest rates. Meanwhile, crude oil prices had fallen. Japan's economy, despite being affected by factors such as high commodity prices, had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected from COVID-19. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from high commodity prices and slowdowns in overseas economies. Exports and production had increased as a trend, with the effects of supply-side constraints waning. Developments in real exports by goods were as follows. Exports of automobile-related goods had been on a moderate increasing trend as the tight global supply and demand conditions for semiconductors used in automobiles had eased gradually on the whole. Exports of capital goods had followed an uptrend, supported by high levels of order backlogs, although orders for semiconductor production equipment, for example, seemed to have shown signs of a slowdown. In contrast, some weakness had been observed in overall IT-related exports because, while automobile-related demand had been firm, adjustment pressure on electronic parts had intensified, mainly for semiconductors for smartphones and personal computers. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were likely to follow an uptrend, supported by the waning of supply-side constraints and high levels of order backlogs for automobiles and capital goods, although they were expected to be affected by the slowdowns in overseas economies. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business sentiment was more or less unchanged. Developments in the diffusion index (DI) for business conditions in the December 2022 (Short-Term Economic Survey of Enterprises in Japan) by industry were as follows. The DI for manufacturing had been more or less flat, mainly because the effects of supply-side constraints had waned as a trend and firms had passed on cost increases to selling prices, while being affected by high raw material costs and a decline in IT-related demand. The DI for nonmanufacturing continued to improve, as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected and as firms had passed on cost increases to selling prices. However, with regard to the forecast of business conditions, the DI for manufacturing had deteriorated due to concern over the slowdowns in overseas economies, and so did that for nonmanufacturing due to concern over the impact of high prices and the COVID-19 resurgence. Business fixed investment had increased moderately. Investment in the manufacturing industry had followed an uptrend, mainly for digital-related investment. That in the nonmanufacturing industry had also increased on the whole due to the progress in investment in logistics facilities and urban redevelopment projects. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole despite being affected by such factors as high commodity prices, business fixed investment was expected to continue increasing on the back of accommodative financial conditions and the waning of supply-side constraints. Looking at leading indicators of such investment, machinery orders (private sector, excluding orders for ships and those from electric power companies) and construction starts (in terms of planned expenses for private and nonresidential construction) had both increased, albeit with fluctuations. The business fixed investment plan in the December showed that business fixed investment -- including software and research and development (R&D) investments but excluding land purchasing expenses, for all industries and enterprises including financial institutions -- was likely to increase by 14.7 percent on a year-on-year basis for fiscal 2022, continuing to register a large positive figure. This was based on the forecast that the effects of supply-side constraints would wane, projects that had been postponed due to COVID-19 would be carried out, and IT-related investment to digitalize business activities as well as investment to address environmental issues, such as toward decarbonization, would increase. Private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by COVID-19. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) remained more or less flat for the July-September quarter of 2022 despite the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence. It then saw an increase for October relative to that quarter, mainly for services consumption. By type, consumption of durable goods had picked up, mainly due to the waning of supply-side constraints. Consumption of nondurable goods had increased, mainly for clothes, on the back of an increase in opportunities to go out. Services consumption had increased, partly supported by the launch of the government's domestic travel discount program. Looking at developments in private consumption since November based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, it seemed to have kept increasing moderately as the resumption of consumption activities had progressed while public health had been protected, and partly pushed up by the government's domestic travel discount program. Despite the price rises in food and other items since October, there had been no significant change in households' overall consumption behavior to this point. However, an increasing number of firms had pointed out that consumers were shifting to cheaper products or to stores offering special sales. Looking at confidence indicators related to private consumption, the consumer confidence index had deteriorated further, with attention being given to price rises. Regarding the outlook, private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises. However, on the back of improvement in the employment situation, it was projected to continue increasing because pent-up demand was likely to materialize, supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed further while public health was being protected. The employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole. Regarding the number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey, that of regular employees had followed a moderate uptrend, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced a severe labor shortage. The number of non-regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, mainly in the face-to-face services industry, as well as the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry. The employment conditions DI in the December was at a level that was very close to the bottom hit before the pandemic, showing a continued increase in net "insufficient." The DI also revealed that labor shortage was expected to become more severe. Total cash earnings per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the pick-up in overall economic activity. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue increasing along with economic recovery. In real terms, however, the year-on-year rate of change in employee income was likely to be negative for the time being, reflecting price rises. As for prices, international commodity prices had declined. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier continued to be relatively high, reflecting past developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 3.5 percent due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. Inflation expectations had risen. Specifically, short-term expectations had increased. Medium- to long-term expectations had also risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase toward the end of 2022 due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. The rate of increase was then expected to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023 because the contribution of such price rises to this CPI was likely to wane. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds had risen moderately as demand for working capital had increased in reflection of a pick-up in economic activity and raw material cost increases. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. Those for corporate bonds also had been favorable on the whole, although issuance spreads had expanded. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 3 percent and around 6 percent, respectively; their amounts outstanding remained at high levels. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions continued on an improving trend, including for small and medium-sized firms, on the back of the pick-up in the economy, although weakness remained in some segments. Nevertheless, the functioning of Japan's bond markets had deteriorated, mainly due to heightened volatility in financial and capital markets at home and abroad. If this situation persisted, attention was warranted on the risk of financial conditions such as issuance conditions for corporate bonds being negatively affected. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been negative, as the amount outstanding of funds provided through the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing had decreased. That in the money stock had been positive, in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. With regard to global financial and capital markets, members shared the view that market sentiment continued to be cautious as uncertainties over monetary tightening by central banks in the United States and Europe, as well as a slowdown in the global economy, had been drawing attention. Demand for funds had risen moderately as demand for working capital had increased in reflection of a pick-up in economic activity and raw material cost increases. Members shared the view that market sentiment continued to be cautious as uncertainties over monetary tightening by central banks in the United States and Europe, as well as a slowdown in the global economy, had been drawing attention, although a slower rise in price indicators in the United States was a positive factor. Members agreed that the pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. Regarding the outlook, they concurred that, although the effects of supply-side constraints were likely to wane, overseas economies were expected to slow, albeit with variation across countries and regions, reflecting the situation surrounding Ukraine and the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence in China, in addition to inflationary pressure exerted on a global basis and policy interest rate hikes by overseas central banks. Members shared the recognition that overseas economies entailed high uncertainties for the time being due to risks such as the following: global inflationary pressure; continuation of policy interest rate hikes by overseas central banks; the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine; and the situations surrounding COVID-19 and the real estate market in China. One member noted that, since there was a time lag until monetary tightening in the United States took effect, such tightening could affect not only the U.S. economy but also the global economy, depending on how much its effects had accumulated to date. With regard to overseas economies by region, members shared the recognition that the U.S. economy remained on a decelerating trend in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. A few members said that some economic data had started to indicate a slowdown in the U.S. economy due to the effects of policy interest rate hikes, and thus an increasing number of market participants were expecting a soft landing. Some members pointed out that U.S. inflation rates had decelerated. On this point, however, some members expressed the recognition that, although the rates of increase in prices of goods and energy had decelerated, those in wages and services prices remained high in the United States amid continued tight labor market conditions. These members continued that, therefore, it was highly likely to take some time to curb high inflation. In this regard, one member said that debates on whether the U.S. economy could achieve a soft landing or instead suffer a hard landing were ongoing. Members shared the view that European economies had recovered moderately; however, slowdowns had been observed as these economies continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. Some members expressed the view that a slowdown in economic activity in Europe was highly likely to continue as the ECB kept raising policy interest rates significantly with the inflation rates remaining high. A few members pointed out that there was a high possibility of European economies entering a recession. On the other hand, one member commented that these economies could possibly pick up since concern over energy supplies had abated. Members agreed that the Chinese economy had slowed, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence. One member said that private consumption in China had been relatively weak due to the strict zero-COVID policy taken until recently. A few members pointed out that, although authorities had been pushing forward with easing of zero-COVID policy and making efforts to prop up the real estate market, an increase in the number of confirmed cases and a sluggish real estate market had pushed down economic activity. Meanwhile, one member noted that there was concern over a decline in the potential growth rate due to the sluggish real estate market and the prolonged high unemployment rate among youth. Members shared the recognition that emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had picked up on the whole, albeit with weakness seen in part. One member pointed out that production and exports in emerging economies had been affected by global inventory adjustments in IT-related goods, although the impact varied depending on whether those economies were commodity exporters. In addition, a different member noted that, although the effects of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar had seen a pause, attention was warranted on a possible increase in debt burden of emerging economies due to policy interest rate hikes by central banks, reflecting globally elevated inflation. Based on the above deliberations on economic and financial conditions abroad, members discussed the state of Japan's economy. With regard to economic activity, members shared the view that Japan's economy, despite being affected by factors such as high commodity prices, had picked up as the resumption of economic activity had progressed while public health had been protected from COVID-19. Some members expressed the view that, although clearer signs of slowdowns had been seen in overseas economies, Japan's economy continued to pick up, partly supported by increases in business fixed investment and private consumption, which had been constrained due to the pandemic. Members agreed that the outlook for economic activity was likely to recover, with the impact of COVID-19 and supply-side constraints waning, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from high commodity prices and slowdowns in overseas economies. They shared the view that, thereafter, as a virtuous cycle from income to spending intensified gradually, the economy was projected to continue growing at a pace above its potential. One member said that this growth pace was expected due to factors such as stronger momentum for wage hikes as well as a boost in "investment in people" and investment in digital transformation; therefore, the course of wage revisions for spring 2023 and the trend in various investments warranted close monitoring. The member added that, in order for Japan's economy to see sustainable growth, it was necessary that productivity of small and medium-sized firms improve through, for example, measures to support them in enhancing their export competitiveness and strengthening their management resources through business succession, as well as measures to assist startups. This member continued that, to achieve sustainable growth, it also was essential to increase resilience against such factors as high commodity prices through the enhancement of energy self-sufficiency and to address decarbonization. Members agreed that exports and production had increased as a trend, with the effects of supply-side constraints waning. On this point, one member pointed out that attention should be paid to whether a trend change would occur in exports, for example, as the slowdowns in overseas economies were likely to take hold. Members shared the recognition that business fixed investment had increased moderately with corporate profits being at high levels on the whole. One member expressed the view that a virtuous cycle was maintained in the corporate sector since business fixed investment continued to increase, reflecting high levels of corporate profits. The member then stated that this was also indicated by a clear increase in the business fixed investment plan presented in the December. A few members were of the view that accommodative financial conditions had positively affected the increase in business fixed investment through lower real interest rates. Members agreed that private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by COVID-19. A few members expressed the view that services demand had improved, particularly for eating and drinking as well as accommodations, partly owing to the effects of the government's demand stimulus measures, such as the domestic travel discount program. Members concurred that the employment and income situation had improved moderately on the whole. They also shared the recognition that, with regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue increasing along with economic recovery. Regarding the annual spring labor-management wage negotiations in 2023, one member expressed the recognition that there was a certain degree of possibility that relatively high wage increases would be achieved in Japan, given such factors as the following: a quite positive stance toward wage hikes among the government, labor, and management; generally favorable corporate profits; and the relationship between labor and management, where there was a strong tendency to support each other. In addition, a different member pointed out that there had been moves among labor unions to demand wage increases given the rise in prices, and that a positive stance had been observed among firms to respond to such demand amid a tightening of labor market conditions. This member continued that these developments could lead to pushing up prices in a sustainable manner. On the other hand, one member expressed the view that the recent high costs putting downward pressure on corporate profits could have negative effects on sustained wage increases. This member noted that, since the sustainability of wage hikes depended on firms' growth potential, supply-side reforms to strengthen their "earning power" were also an important factor in achieving the price stability target of 2 percent. The member added that the inflation rate for general services warranted attention as a barometer of such reforms in economic and wage structures. Moreover, one member commented that, although there seemed to be growing momentum toward wage increases from a macroeconomic perspective, the rate of increase would likely differ among firms and among employees with different attributes, such as age groups. This member continued that it was thus necessary to make efforts to examine wage developments from various aspects. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 3.5 percent due to rises in prices of such items as energy, food, and durable goods. With regard to the outlook, they shared the recognition that the rate of change was likely to increase toward the end of 2022 for the same reason; thereafter, the rate of increase was expected to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023 because the contribution of such price rises to this CPI was likely to wane. One member expressed the view that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was expected to decelerate after the turn of 2023, considering, for example, a waning of upward pressure from import prices going forward and the government's support measures regarding electricity charges. This member added that, in fact, commodity prices, including for crude oil, had peaked out and turned to a decline and the year-on-year rate of increase in the import price index had decelerated clearly for November. A different member expressed the recognition that CPI inflation was expected to fall below 2 percent after upward pressure of costs peaked out. On this basis, the member expressed the view that, for the CPI inflation rate to accelerate again to 2 percent and stay at this level, it was necessary that nominal wages increase sufficiently and that inflation rise in items for which consumer prices were sticky, especially services. Meanwhile, one member said that an increasing number of firms had passed on cost increases to their selling prices, and that this may contribute to strengthening underlying inflation or lead to a virtuous cycle through an increase in corporate profits. A few members also expressed the view that moderate inflationary pressure could continue, given, for example, the price situation in overseas economies, the situation of the restructuring of supply chains, and developments in the pass-through of cost increases to selling prices by Japanese firms. One of these members expressed the opinion that inflation in prices of not only goods but also services had gradually risen, and that the trimmed mean and weighted median of the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI had seen a further rise; this suggested a possibility that the momentum of inflation had started to strengthen. In addition, members shared the recognition that the underlying inflationary pressure was projected to increase on the back of improvement in the output gap and rises in medium- to long-term inflation expectations and in wage growth. One member stated that, in assessing price developments, it was necessary to examine underlying inflation by looking at various related indicators and take into account the effects of the government's comprehensive economic measures on consumer prices. On this point, a different member said that changes in the inflation rate were highly likely to be significant for the time being, mainly due to fluctuations in supply factors and the effects of government measures. This member then expressed the view that it would become even more crucial to assess underlying inflation based on the price formation mechanism. Meanwhile, one member expressed the opinion that consumer prices in Japan were approaching the state seen before the deflationary period, as suggested by the price change distribution for CPI items and by the level of the CPI excluding fresh food and energy, and that this could be considered a sign of progress toward achieving a situation where Japan's economy would not return to deflation. In response to this, a different member pointed out that, while both actual prices and inflation expectations had risen, the recent rise in services prices was largely due to the impact of high raw material costs, and that there was still a long way to go to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable and stable manner. As for risks to economic activity and prices, members agreed that there were extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economy, including the following: developments in overseas economic activity and prices; developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine and in commodity prices; and the course of COVID-19 at home and abroad and its impact. One member pointed out that developments in overseas economic activity and prices had been surrounded by significant risks, including developments in the U.S. inflation rate in reflection of continued high services prices and wage growth as well as the impact of the COVID-19 resurgence in China. In addition, one member stated that it was important to continue paying close attention to the course of COVID-19 at home and abroad and its impact, such as the effects of the eighth wave of the pandemic in Japan, mainly on the eating and drinking services industry, and developments in COVID-19 in China. On this basis, members shared the view that it was necessary to pay due attention to developments in financial and foreign exchange markets and their impact on Japan's economic activity and prices. Japan's economy is currently in a critical phase for achieving the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable and stable manner. It is necessary to anchor medium- to long-term inflation expectations at 2 percent and to increase nominal wages to a certain extent. Since there is still a long way to go to achieve the target, monetary easing should be continued. Signs of a virtuous cycle have started to be seen, as evidenced by the overall high levels of corporate profits and moves to increase wages. Since the price stability target is not considered to have been achieved, it is appropriate for the Bank to maintain monetary easing for the time being. It is necessary to examine where the risks associated with a rise in interest rates lie. Interest rates in Japan remain stable at low levels despite significant upward pressure from overseas interest rates. If domestic interest rates increased substantially due to higher overseas interest rates, this could exert significant downward pressure on Japan's economy. The stability of nominal interest rates indicates that the effects of monetary easing have intensified. The functioning of bond markets has deteriorated. There is a distortion in the price formation of 10-year bonds. If the deterioration in the functioning of bond markets persists, this could have a negative impact on financial conditions such as issuance conditions for corporate bonds. It is appropriate to increase the purchase amount of JGBs to stabilize interest rates. It is important to increase JGB purchases to enhance the sustainability of monetary easing. It is appropriate to expand the range of 10-year JGB yield fluctuations. It is necessary to carefully monitor developments in financial markets. It was decided to apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the short-term policy interest rate. It was decided to purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. It was decided to purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary regarding the guideline for asset purchases. It was decided to purchase CP and corporate bonds at about the same pace as prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.