A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, September 16, 2020, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:40 p.m., and on Thursday, September 17, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on July 14 and 15, 2020, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). In this situation, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent, and the shape of the JGB yield curve had been consistent with the guideline for market operations. The Bank had conducted purchases of CP and corporate bonds and the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) to support financing, mainly of firms, under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19). In addition, the Bank had provided ample yen and foreign currency funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and the conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and had actively purchased exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.01 to minus 0.07 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had declined somewhat. The Nikkei Stock Average had risen, following a rise in U.S. stock prices that mainly reflected heightened expectations for recovery in business performance and stronger-than-expected economic indicators. Long-term interest rates had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. As for liquidity in the JGB market, a comparison of the August Bond Market Survey with the May survey showed that the diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning (the proportion of institutions responding that bond market functioning was 'high' minus the proportion of those responding that it was 'low') had improved largely, while remaining in negative territory. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been appreciating somewhat against the U.S. dollar, whereas it had been depreciating against the euro, mainly on the back of agreement on the establishment of the European Union (EU) Recovery Fund. Overseas economies had started to pick up from a state of significant depression. Looking at real GDP for the April-June quarter of 2020 for each economy, which was released during the intermeeting period, many economies experienced record plunges, which reconfirmed that overseas economies had been depressed significantly due to the spread of COVID-19 and measures such as lockdowns. Looking at subsequent developments, business sentiment had improved, mainly due to a resumption of economic activity, the materialization of pent-up demand, and a recovery in production from the decline brought about by COVID-19. In addition, global production and the world trade volume had rebounded recently. On the other hand, a clear pick-up in overseas economies had not been observed yet, as evidenced by the fact that, for example, the pace of increase in services consumption in some countries and regions, such as the United States, had been only moderate through summer with the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases increasing. With regard to the outlook, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually, overseas economies were likely to pick up, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies in each country and region. Nevertheless, the pace was expected to be only moderate for the time being. In addition, there remained extremely high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and the magnitude of their impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had started to pick up from a state of significant depression. Private consumption also had started to pick up, mainly for goods consumption, reflecting in particular the government's measures to compensate for the decline in household income and the materialization of some pent-up demand, although services consumption had been at a low level, partly due to the surge in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases through summer. Housing investment had increased, partly due to the materialization of pent-up demand, with mortgage rates marking a record low. Business fixed investment remained depressed on the whole, mainly reflecting a decline in corporate profits, although machinery investment had picked up in part. The European economy had started to pick up from a state of significant depression. In the euro area, private consumption had started to pick up, mainly for goods consumption, reflecting in particular an increase in governments' subsidies for purchasers of automobiles and the materialization of some pent-up demand, although services consumption had been at a low level, partly due to the recent increase in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases. Exports and production had also turned to a pick-up. Business fixed investment had picked up in part but remained depressed on the whole, mainly reflecting a decline in corporate profits. The Chinese economy had recovered due to the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies and the materialization of pent-up demand. Exports had increased. Private consumption had picked up on the whole owing to the materialization of pent-up demand, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part. Fixed asset investment continued to increase with the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies. Emerging economies other than China remained depressed, although a pick-up had been seen in part. As for the NIEs and the ASEAN countries, exports and production had picked up, although domestic demand had been depressed. The economies of India, Brazil, and Russia also continued to be depressed amid the spread of COVID-19. With respect to overseas financial markets, stock prices remained on an uptrend throughout the intermeeting period, mainly supported by expectations for early development of a vaccine and some favorable economic indicators. long-term interest rates had risen somewhat. In the foreign exchange market, the U.S. dollar had been depreciating slightly, as market participants factored in a prolonged low interest rate policy by the Federal Reserve, while currencies in emerging economies were more or less unchanged on the whole with depreciation seen in some of them. Meanwhile, crude oil prices had declined since the start of September, partly reflecting adjustments in U.S. stock prices. Japan's economy had started to pick up with economic activity resuming gradually, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. With this resumption, the economy was likely to follow a moderate improving trend through the materialization of pent-up demand and supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures. Exports and industrial production had turned to a pick-up, reflecting developments in overseas economies. Looking at real exports by goods, automobile-related exports had turned to a pick-up against the background of a recovery in selling of automobiles in the United States, Europe, and China. IT-related exports had increased, mainly for parts for data centers and those related to personal computers. On the other hand, capital goods exports had been depressed, particularly of metalworking machinery and construction machines, reflecting a global postponement of business fixed investment. As for the outlook, exports and production were likely to continue picking up as the impact of COVID-19 waned worldwide. Private consumption had picked up gradually on the whole, although consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations, remained at a low level. As for goods consumption, selling of automobiles had increased for three consecutive months since June and recently recovered to the level seen at the start of this year. That of household electrical appliances had been on a pick-up trend, partly reflecting people spending more time at home and the effects of the provision of special cash payments. In addition, food and daily necessities, for example, remained firm on the back of an expansion in stay-at-home consumption, although their rates of increase had decelerated compared to a while ago. Services consumption had shown a pick-up from the bottom hit in the April-May period, when the state of emergency was in place, but the pace remained slow, due in part to an increase in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases since July. The level of such consumption remained low, mainly for face-to-face services such as dining-out and travel. Sales in the food services industry had increased gradually since May, but only about half of the decline had been offset. As for travel, domestic travel had picked up gradually, albeit at a low level, owing to relaxation of self-restraint from traveling across prefectures and the "Go To Travel" campaign; on the other hand, there had been almost no overseas travel as travel restrictions remained in place. Regarding the outlook, consumption of services, such as eating and drinking as well as accommodations, was likely to remain at a relatively low level. However, as the impact of COVID-19 waned on the whole, the pick-up in private consumption was expected to become evident, supported by various income support measures and demand stimulus measures. Corporate profits and business sentiment had deteriorated due to the impact of COVID-19. Looking at the Financial Statements Statistics of Corporations by Industry, Quarterly, while the ratio of current profits to sales had been on a downtrend from the second half of last year, the statistics for the April-June quarter showed that the ratio had declined further recently due to the impact of COVID-19. Business sentiment, mainly of small and medium-sized firms, had been in a state of significant deterioration, although some indicators had headed toward a pick-up. Business fixed investment had been on a declining trend. According to the second preliminary estimates of GDP for the April-June quarter, the growth rate of real business fixed investment had registered minus 4.7 percent on a quarter-on-quarter basis. The aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- had decreased clearly due to deterioration in corporate profits and increasing uncertainties over the future. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- had been on a moderate downtrend, partly because Olympic Games-related large-scale construction almost had been completed. Regarding the outlook, business fixed investment was expected to continue on a declining trend against the background of deterioration in corporate profits and high uncertainties over future developments regarding COVID-19. With the continuing impact of COVID-19, the employment and income situation had been weak. According to the Labour Force Survey, the year-on-year rate of change in the number of employed persons for July had registered minus 1.1 percent, with the rate of decline being almost the same as that for the April-June quarter. Meanwhile, the number of employed persons not at work, which had surged following the declaration of the state of emergency in April, had shown a clear decline since the May-June period, with the figure for July generally returning to the level seen in March. The year-on-year rate of change in nominal wages for July had been in the range of minus 2 to minus 3 percent, due mainly to declines in non-scheduled cash earnings and summer bonuses. Employee income was projected to continue on a declining trend for the time being, affected by the depressed economic activity and a deterioration in corporate profits, both reflecting the impact of COVID-19. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) was at around 0 percent, and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) was at around 0.5 percent. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be negative for the time being, mainly affected by COVID-19 and the past decline in crude oil prices. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so, as seen in weakness in firms' financial positions. Inflation expectations had weakened somewhat. Firms' demand for funds had increased, mainly against the background of a decline in sales and an increase in precautionary demand, both of which were due to the impact of COVID-19. Their financial positions had been weak, mainly reflecting a decline in sales due to the impact of COVID-19. The DI for financial positions of small enterprises had improved moderately but had not recovered to the level reached before the outbreak of COVID-19. However, the environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable on the whole. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 6.5-7.0 percent, and that in the amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at a relatively high level that exceeded 10 percent. The year-on-year rate of increase in the monetary base had been at around 11.5 percent, and that in the money stock had been at around 8.5 percent. Members agreed that the tension in global financial markets had eased, mainly due to heightened expectations for recovery in business performance, particularly in the United States. However, they shared the view that, amid a situation of high uncertainty regarding domestic and overseas economies, the markets continued to be nervous, as evidenced, for example, by volatility in the stock market remaining at a relatively higher level than that seen before the outbreak of COVID-19. One of these members noted that financial markets had recently been stable due to the fact that each country and region had been conducting fiscal and monetary policies in the same direction, in response to the globally common shock. However, the member continued that the volatility could increase again depending on future developments, and therefore this warranted attention. In addition, a different member pointed out that, with regard to indicators that capture the skew of market participants' recognition of risks, the Cboe SKEW index remained at a high level, suggesting that the markets were focusing on the downside tail risk of a significant plunge in stock prices, and the risk reversal of the U.S. dollar/yen indicated growing concern over an appreciation of the yen. Members concurred that overseas economies had started to pick up from a state of significant depression. However, many members expressed the recognition that, while the impact of COVID-19 remained worldwide, the level of economic activity was still low and the pace of the pick-up had been slow, particularly in services consumption. In addition, one member noted that a clear V-shaped recovery had been seen in some sectors, whereas a recovery in demand was still not in sight in other sectors. The member continued that this contrast between sectors had started to become gradually more evident than that observed at the time of the Global Financial Crisis. With regard to the outlook, members shared the recognition that, as the impact of COVID-19 waned gradually, overseas economies were likely to pick up, partly supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies in each country and region, but the pace was expected to be only moderate. In addition, some members pointed out that risks to future developments included the consequences of COVID-19, an intensifying tension between the United States and China, trade negotiations between the United Kingdom and the EU, as well as the U.S. presidential election, and that they entailed high uncertainties. With regard to overseas economies by region, members shared the recognition that the U.S. economy had started to pick up from a state of significant depression. A few members noted that the effects of monetary easing brought about by a decline in real interest rates had emerged in, for example, housing investment and selling of automobiles. In addition, one member expressed the recognition that the U.S. economy had started to pick up, mainly for goods consumption. The member continued that it was likely to continue picking up since a decline in growth expectations held by the young and middle-aged generations had not been observed. One member said that it was of concern that the recovery momentum of employment had slowed compared with the pace of economic recovery. Members shared the view that the European economy had started to pick up from a state of significant depression. A few members said that, although it had done so after lockdowns had been lifted, it was of concern that, according to high-frequency data, the pace of economic recovery had slowed since August, with the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases increasing. A clear V-shaped recovery had been seen in some sectors, whereas a recovery in demand was still not in sight in other sectors. Members concurred that the Chinese economy had recovered due to the emergence of the effects of aggressive macroeconomic policies and the materialization of pent-up demand. Members shared the recognition that emerging economies remained significantly depressed, although a pick-up had been seen in part. Regarding economic activity, members concurred that the economy had started to pick up with economic activity resuming gradually, although it remained in a severe situation due to the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad. Members agreed that exports and production had turned to a pick-up. Members shared the view that private consumption had picked up gradually on the whole, mainly for goods consumption, although services consumption remained at a low level. Members concurred that the employment and income situation had been weak. Members concurred that Japan's economy, with economic activity resuming, was likely to follow an improving trend through the materialization of pent-up demand and supported by accommodative financial conditions and the government's economic measures, but the pace of improvement was expected to be only moderate while the impact of COVID-19 remained worldwide. Members shared the recognition that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was at around 0 percent, mainly affected by the past decline in crude oil prices, and that in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) was at around 0.5 percent, while inflation expectations had weakened somewhat. Members agreed that there remained extremely high uncertainties over the consequences of COVID-19 and the magnitude of their impact on domestic and overseas economies. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole but those for corporate financing remained less so, as seen in weakness in firms' financial positions, mainly reflecting a decline in sales. Members discussed monetary policy for the immediate future. Members concurred that, for the time being, the Bank would closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. The Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2 trillion yen and about 3 trillion yen, respectively. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, in response to a possible increase in downward pressure on prices and with the aim of alleviating firms' and households' interest burden. The Bank will continue with "Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control," aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to support financing mainly of firms and maintain stability in financial markets through (1) the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19), (2) an ample provision of yen and foreign currency funds without setting upper limits mainly by purchasing JGBs and conducting the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations, and (3) active purchases of ETFs and J-REITs. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Kataoka dissented, considering that, given the severe impact of COVID-19, further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target. In case of a rapid increase in the yields, the Bank will purchase JGBs promptly and appropriately. As for the guideline for purchases of ETFs and J-REITs, in principle, "the Bank will purchase these assets so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively.