A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, June 15, 2023, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:03 p.m., and on Friday, June 16, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on April 27 and 28, 2023, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Under the guideline for conduct of yield curve control decided at that meeting, it had also conducted outright purchases of 10-year JGBs at 0.5 percent through the fixed-rate method every business day. Moreover, the Bank had carried out fixed-rate purchase operations of the cheapest-to-deliver (CTD) issues every business day. With these market operations, 10-year JGB yields had been at around 0 percent. The shape of the JGB yield curve since the previous meeting continued to be generally smooth. The Bank had conducted operations to purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs), Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs), CP, and corporate bonds in accordance with the guideline for asset purchases decided at the previous meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.023 to minus 0.079 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of around minus 0.088 to minus 0.224 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had been more or less flat. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen substantially. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had been at around 0 percent under yield curve control. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets generally remained in a state of deterioration compared with those seen in the first half of 2022; however, they had been improving relative to their deterioration from the end of 2022 to around mid-March this year. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, showed an improvement from the previous survey. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar, mainly on the back of a widening of the yield differential between Japan and the United States. Meanwhile, the yen had also depreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. economy remained on a slowing trend, in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, although firmness had been seen in private consumption. European economies had slowed moderately, although concerns over energy supply had eased compared with a while ago, as they continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. The Chinese economy had picked up, as the normalization of economic activity had progressed, while being affected by factors such as adjustments in IT-related goods and a slowdown in external demand. In emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, the pace of improvement had slowed on the whole; although domestic demand continued to improve moderately in these economies, exports had slowed, particularly of IT-related goods. As for the outlook, the pace of recovery in overseas economies was projected to remain slow for the time being, amid inflationary pressure persisting on a global basis and continued policy interest rate hikes by central banks, and also with the situation surrounding Ukraine weighing on economic activity. Overseas economies were expected to pick up in steps thereafter as inflationary pressure gradually subsided and the normalization of economic activity in China progressed. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as developments in global inflationary pressure, the course of the situation surrounding Ukraine, and developments in the Chinese economy. With respect to overseas financial markets, in the United States, long-term interest rates had risen, mainly reflecting solid economic indicators, and stock prices had also increased, particularly for high-tech-related stocks. On the other hand, long-term interest rates and stock prices in Europe were almost unchanged. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had depreciated on the back of the rise in U.S. interest rates. Crude oil prices had declined, mainly reflecting weaker-than-expected economic indicators in China. Japan's economy had picked up, despite being affected by factors such as past high commodity prices. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover moderately toward around the middle of fiscal 2023, supported by factors such as the materialization of pent-up demand, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from past high commodity prices and the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by a waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Regarding the outlook, exports and production were projected to continue showing similar developments toward around the middle of fiscal 2023. Thereafter, they were likely to return to an uptrend with overseas economies picking up. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole. Business fixed investment had increased moderately. With regard to the outlook, as corporate profits remained at high levels on the whole, such investment was expected to continue increasing, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions. Private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by price rises. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased for the January-March quarter of 2023 but had decreased for April relative to that quarter. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption seemed to have continued to increase moderately since May 2023. This was because it had been supported in part by the effects of the downgrading of COVID-19 to a Class V infectious disease, with improvement in the income situation starting to become clear, partly in light of the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Regarding the outlook, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue increasing moderately with nominal employee income continuing to improve, and partly supported by household savings that had accumulated as a result of pandemic-related restrictions. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had increased moderately, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, when fluctuations were smoothed out, mainly in the face-to-face services industry, as well as the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry. Total cash earnings per employee had increased moderately, reflecting a pick-up in overall economic activity. Corporate managers' responses to the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations revealed to date showed that wage increases, including regular seniority-based ones, had risen significantly from around 2 percent for 2022 to the range of 3.5-4.0 percent for 2023, a level last seen in 1993. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue increasing in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. In real terms, the year-on-year rate of change in employee income was projected to gradually turn positive toward the middle of fiscal 2023, as inflation declined and nominal employee income improved. As for prices, commodity prices had decreased somewhat on the whole. With the impact of past high commodity prices and yen depreciation gradually waning, the rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had declined, partly due to the effects of a reduction by the government in the rate of renewable energy surcharges on electricity. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been at around 3.5 percent recently owing to the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by a rise in import prices. Inflation expectations were more or less unchanged after rising. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was expected to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023, with a waning of the effects of the pass-through of cost increases led by the rise in import prices. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds had risen moderately on the back of a pick-up in economic activity and past high raw material costs. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. In the corporate bond market, issuance conditions had been favorable on the whole, as supply-demand conditions had shown signs of improvement. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been in the range of 3.5-4.0 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had decelerated and had been in the range of 1.5-2.0 percent. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased recently but remained at a low level. Although weakness remained in some segments, firms' financial positions had been at improved levels on the whole, supported by a pick-up in economic activity. The year-on-year rate of decline in the monetary base had decelerated with the waning effects of the decline in the amount outstanding of funds provided through the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing). The rate of change in the money stock had been positive, in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent. New loan disbursement under the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing was terminated in March 2023 as scheduled, and all loans disbursed under the operation would reach maturity by the end of June. Accordingly, the staff proposed that the Bank amend the Principal Terms and Conditions of Complementary Deposit Facility and the Principal Terms and Conditions of the Interest Scheme to Promote Lending. Members voted unanimously to approve the amendments. It was confirmed that this would be made public after the meeting. With regard to global financial and capital markets, members concurred that market sentiment had shown signs of improvement, mainly on the back of solid corporate results, although attention continued to be drawn to uncertainties surrounding monetary policy and the financial sector in the United States and Europe and to a slowdown in the global economy. Members shared the recognition that the pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. One member expressed the view that the slowing trend in advanced economies had strengthened as the effects of monetary tightening since 2022 had gradually materialized. The member continued that the pick-up in the Chinese economy also had been slow. Meanwhile, a few members noted that, in many economies and regions, the manufacturing industry had weakened somewhat while the services industry had been firm. Members agreed that the U.S. economy remained on a slowing trend, in reflection of price rises and continued policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve, although firmness had been seen in private consumption. Some members expressed the view that, with labor market conditions remaining tight, inflationary pressure had been persistent. One member said that the pace of increase in private consumption was likely to slow as household savings, which had supported firm private consumption, was expected to decline. A different member expressed the view that, given that the credit market and financial institutions' lending stance had tightened due to the impact of policy interest rate hikes, attention was warranted on whether a credit crunch would occur, mainly in the commercial real estate market, where loans were largely extended by regional banks. Members shared the recognition that European economies had slowed moderately, although concerns over energy supply had eased compared with a while ago, as these economies continued to be affected by the situation surrounding Ukraine. One member stated that inflation in Europe seemed to have eased. In response, a few members expressed the view that inflationary pressure in reflection of wage increases might be persistent. One member said that attention should be paid to uncertainties remaining high over energy and other supplies, and to the impact of the tightening of the rules of origin for determining the tariffs on goods traded between the European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy had picked up, as the normalization of economic activity had progressed, while being affected by factors such as adjustments in IT-related goods and the slowdown in external demand. That said, a few members expressed the recognition that the pace of recovery in private consumption, mainly for goods, had been slow, due in part to the prolonged high youth unemployment rate. One of these members was concerned about the weakness in private consumption reflected in low consumer prices and about a decline in growth expectations. In addition, some members expressed the view that adjustments in the real estate market continued to push down the economy. Regarding emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, members shared the recognition that the pace of improvement had slowed on the whole; although domestic demand continued to improve moderately in these economies, exports had slowed, particularly of IT-related goods. Members shared the view that Japan's economy was likely to recover moderately toward around the middle of fiscal 2023, supported by factors such as the materialization of pent-up demand, although it was expected to be under downward pressure stemming from past high commodity prices and the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies. Members shared the recognition that, although exports and production had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat, supported by the waning of the effects of supply-side constraints. Members agreed that business fixed investment had increased moderately, with corporate profits being at high levels on the whole. Members concurred that private consumption had increased moderately, despite being affected by price rises. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was slower than a while ago, mainly due to the effects of pushing down energy prices from the government's economic measures, but it had been at around 3.5 percent recently owing to the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the rise in import prices. Members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was likely to decelerate toward the middle of fiscal 2023, with the waning of the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the rise in import prices. Members concurred that there were extremely high uncertainties for Japan's economy, including developments in overseas economic activity and prices as well as developments in the situation surrounding Ukraine and in commodity prices. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Members discussed monetary policy. Members shared the basic stance that, with extremely high uncertainties surrounding economies and financial markets at home and abroad, the Bank would patiently continue with monetary easing while nimbly responding to developments in economic activity and prices as well as financial conditions. Members shared the view that the Bank would aim to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent in a sustainable and stable manner. Members agreed that it was necessary to assess the effects of various unconventional monetary policy measures that had been implemented over the past 25 years. Members concurred that, in reviewing monetary policy from a broad perspective, the Bank should incorporate diverse expertise in the review and take various initiatives with a view to enhancing the review's objectivity and transparency. Members expressed the view that it was vital that the Bank ask for the opinions of wide-ranging entities, such as business managers, households, and market participants. Members stated that it was important for the Bank to devise a way of communicating the results of the review so that they would be understandable not only to academics and experts but also to the wider public. Members agreed to purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary regarding the guideline for asset purchases. Members agreed to maintain the amount outstanding of CP at about 2 trillion yen regarding the guideline for asset purchases. Members put the Statement on Monetary Policy to a vote and decided the text by a unanimous vote. Members approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of April 27 and 28, 2023. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed CPI (all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. The Bank will continue to maintain the stability of financing, mainly of firms, and financial markets, and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary.