A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, January 17, 2022, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:55 p.m., and on Tuesday, January 18, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on December 16 and 17, 2021, the Bank had been conducting purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). With a view to supporting financing, mainly of firms, and maintaining stability in financial markets, the Bank had taken the following measures: purchases of CP and corporate bonds and conduct of the Special Funds-Supplying Operations to Facilitate Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Operations to Facilitate Financing), both under the Special Program to Support Financing in Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (the Special Program); flexible provision of ample funds, mainly through purchases of JGBs and conduct of the U.S. dollar funds-supplying operations; and purchases of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. With a view to supporting financing of the private sector for their efforts on climate change, the Bank had made its first auction and loan disbursement amounting to 2.0 trillion yen under the Funds-Supplying Operations to Support Financing for Climate Change Responses (Climate Response Financing Operations). In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) was more or less unchanged throughout the intermeeting period; despite having risen through the beginning of 2022 on the back of less vigilance against the Omicron variant, it then declined in reflection of sluggish stock prices in the United States and Europe induced by increases in their long-term interest rates. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar, due in part to the rise in U.S. long-term interest rates, but some unwinding of positions had been observed recently. Overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Due to the spread of the Omicron variant, the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had surged, exceeding the record high level; however, in many countries and regions, the resumption of economic activity continued to progress while the target of public health measures was being narrowed down. Under these circumstances, business sentiment globally had improved, and the production level of the manufacturing industry and the trade volume had increased. As for the outlook, with the impact of COVID-19 waning gradually, overseas economies were likely to continue recovering on the whole, supported by aggressive macroeconomic policies taken mainly in advanced economies. That said, the pace of recovery was highly likely to be uneven across countries, primarily due to the different paces in the vaccine rollout. In addition, there remained high uncertainties over developments in COVID-19 and supply-side constraints, as well as their impact on overseas economies. With regard to developments in overseas economies by region, the U.S. economy had recovered. Private consumption continued to increase, mainly for goods consumption, partly owing to the government's economic measures. The number of employees had grown, but the degree of recovery remained moderate relative to the pace of resumption in economic activity. As for the corporate sector, in a situation where business sentiment kept improving, business fixed investment continued to increase. Regarding price developments, the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator had marked a high increase on a year-on-year basis, mainly due to the effects of supply-side constraints. The European economy had recovered. Private consumption kept recovering, particularly for services consumption, with economic activity continuing to resume. With regard to the corporate sector, although business sentiment kept improving, business fixed investment had been somewhat weak. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had been significantly above 2 percent, mainly due to the recent rise in energy prices. The Chinese economy had recovered as a trend, but the pace of improvement remained slow. Private consumption had been on an uptrend, mainly against the background of an improvement in the employment and income situation, although the impact of COVID-19 remained in part and automobile sales had slowed due to the effects of a semiconductor shortage. Fixed asset investment had been more or less flat, mainly because real estate investment had decelerated in reflection of, for example, firms' debt problems. Under these circumstances, production remained in a deceleration phase, partly reflecting power supply issues and the effects of supply-side constraints. Emerging economies other than China had picked up as domestic and external demand had improved. The NIEs had recovered because exports continued to increase and domestic demand had picked up with the impact of COVID-19 waning. The ASEAN countries had seen a pick-up in economic activity, supported by an increase in domestic and external demand, despite the impact of COVID-19 remaining in some areas. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in advanced economies had increased clearly, owing to emerging speculation that the Federal Reserve would reduce monetary accommodation earlier than expected. Despite being under downward pressure from the rise in long-term interest rates, stock prices in such economies had risen slightly on the whole since the previous meeting as concerns over an economic downturn that might be triggered by the Omicron variant had eased. In the foreign exchange market, currencies in emerging economies had appreciated slightly, mainly due to improvement in market participants' risk sentiment. Meanwhile, crude oil prices had increased amid easing concerns that demand would wane given the spread of COVID-19. A pick-up in Japan's economy had become evident as the impact of COVID-19 at home and abroad had waned gradually. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to recover as downward pressure stemming from COVID-19 on services consumption and the effects of supply-side constraints waned, while being supported by an increase in external demand, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. Exports and industrial production continued to increase as a trend on the back of the recovery in overseas economies, despite the remaining effects of supply-side constraints. Looking at production by industry, that of transport equipment had increased, after having decreased significantly due to the effects of parts procurement difficulties stemming from the spread of COVID-19 in the ASEAN countries; that said, the effects of supply-side constraints were still in evidence. Production of "general-purpose, production, and business-oriented machinery" remained on an uptrend, on the back of solid demand for business fixed investment at home and abroad. Although production of "electronic parts and devices" had been relatively weak in terms of such items for smartphones, it had been at a high level on the whole, as that of semiconductors for data centers, for example, had been steady. With regard to the outlook, exports and industrial production were likely to increase as the effects of supply-side constraints waned. Corporate profits and business sentiment continued to improve on the whole. Business fixed investment had picked up, despite weakness being seen in some industries. Although the effects of parts shortages remained in the supply of some capital goods, such as mobile phone base stations, the aggregate supply of capital goods -- a coincident indicator of machinery investment -- had turned to an increase, mainly reflecting the waning of supply-side constraints on automobile-related goods. Private construction completed (nonresidential) -- a coincident indicator of construction investment -- had remained on a moderate declining trend but had bottomed out, mainly reflecting an increase in construction of logistics facilities on the back of an expansion in e-commerce. With regard to the outlook, as the effects of supply-side constraints waned, an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear, supported by improvement in corporate profits and accommodative financial conditions. When fluctuations were smoothed out, machinery orders -- a leading indicator of machinery investment -- had shown a pick-up. Estimated costs of construction starts -- a leading indicator of construction investment -- had picked up on the whole. This was because, although the construction of stores and accommodation facilities -- mainly by the eating and drinking as well as accommodations industries -- remained weak, construction starts had been supported by an uptrend in construction of logistics and other facilities, as well as by progress in urban redevelopment projects. A pick-up in private consumption had become evident, with downward pressure stemming from COVID-19, particularly on services consumption, waning. Since the nationwide lifting of the state of emergency and priority measures to prevent the spread of disease, the consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had continued to climb clearly for October and November 2021, and had almost reached the level of that for November 2020, which was the peak since the outbreak of COVID-19. Consumption of durable goods had declined through summer 2021 due to a peaking-out of stay-at-home-related demand and supply-side constraints seen in such areas as automobiles, but had picked up thereafter. That of nondurable goods had increased, with firm consumption of food, beverages, and daily necessities as well as an increase in that of items such as clothes, mainly on the back of a pick-up in people's willingness to go out. Services consumption -- particularly in dining-out and domestic travel -- increased clearly for October and November 2021. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, developments in private consumption from December 2021 through the beginning of 2022 were as follows. For durable goods, sales of automobiles had continued to increase, reflecting the waning of supply-side constraints. Despite concern over uncertainties regarding the Omicron variant, services consumption -- particularly in dining-out in small groups and domestic travel -- seemed to have continued on a pick-up trend, with the situation of COVID-19 having been subdued on the whole until the start of 2022. That said, it had been pointed out that uncertainties in the short run had heightened, particularly for face-to-face services consumption, as the number of confirmed new cases of COVID-19 had increased and priority measures to prevent the spread of disease had been placed for some areas after the start of January. In the outlook, private consumption was projected to be restrained for the time being, mainly through vigilance against COVID-19. However, it was expected to recover, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand and the government's economic measures, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed while public health was being protected, mainly due to the widespread vaccinations. The employment and income situation remained relatively weak on the whole, although improvement had been seen in some parts. The number of employed persons in the Labour Force Survey had bottomed out, reflecting the pick-up in overall economic activity; however, it remained at a relatively low level, mainly for non-regular employees in the face-to-face services industry. That said, the number of regular employees continued to increase moderately, mainly in the medical, healthcare, and welfare services industry, as well as the information and communications industry, both of which had faced a severe labor shortage. With regard to labor market conditions, although the active job openings-to-applicants ratio remained more or less flat at a level slightly above 1, its leading indicator -- namely, the new job openings-to-applicants ratio -- had risen recently on the back of an increase in job openings for the accommodations as well as eating and drinking industries. Total cash earnings per employee had increased moderately but were still below the pre-pandemic level. As for the outlook, employee income was likely to continue increasing moderately on the back of economic improvement and see a clear rise in its level. As for prices, despite uncertainties surrounding the spread of the Omicron variant, international commodity prices remained at a high level against the background of a continued recovery in the global economy. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier continued to increase clearly, reflecting developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food), despite being affected by a reduction in mobile phone charges, had been slightly positive, reflecting price rises of energy and other items. That in the CPI (all items less fresh food and energy) had been positive at around 0.5 percent when excluding temporary factors such as the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Meanwhile, inflation expectations had risen moderately. Many of the recently released indicators of such expectations of households, firms, economists, and market participants had been rising above levels seen immediately prior to the pandemic -- particularly for short-term expectations -- mainly reflecting developments in international commodity prices. With regard to the outlook, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to increase in positive territory for the time being. That is, albeit with fluctuations, the increase in the CPI was expected to be brought about by the rise in energy prices, the moderate pass-through of raw material cost increases, and dissipation of the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Financial conditions had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Firms' demand for funds was more or less unchanged on the whole, as precautionary demand for liquidity due to the impact of COVID-19 had generally subsided, although demand for working capital by some firms had been seen -- particularly in the CP market -- reflecting raw material cost increases. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. In this situation, the year-on-year rates of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending and the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at around 0.5 percent and about 9 percent, respectively; their amounts outstanding remained at high levels. The environment for external funding remained accommodative owing to the Bank's and the government's measures, as well as efforts made by financial institutions. The number of bankruptcies of firms had been at a low level. Firms' financial positions continued to improve on the whole on the back of the pick-up in Japan's economy, although weakness remained, particularly for firms in industries that were susceptible to the impact of COVID-19, as well as for small and medium-sized ones. The year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base, while declining compared with a while ago, remained positive and was in the range of 8.0-8.5 percent recently. That in the money stock had been positive, in the range of 3.5-4.0 percent. Japan's financial system was maintaining stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly due to the overall loans outstanding being at a high level and to an increase in net income from fees and commissions. Their credit costs had been at low levels. Their capital adequacy ratios had risen somewhat. Members voted unanimously to approve the amendment. Members shared the view that global financial markets had seen large fluctuations, mainly due to uncertainties regarding the consequences of the Omicron variant and their impact on the global economy and to vigilance against moves to reduce monetary accommodation in, for example, the United States. Members concurred that overseas economies had recovered on the whole, albeit with variation across countries and regions. Members agreed that the European economy had recovered. Members shared the recognition that the U.S. economy had recovered. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy had recovered as a trend, but the pace of improvement remained slow. Members concurred that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative on the whole, although weakness in firms' financial positions remained in some segments. Members agreed that a pick-up in private consumption had become evident, with downward pressure stemming from COVID-19, particularly on services consumption, waning. Members shared the view that employee income was likely to increase moderately on the back of a rise in the number of employees that reflected the recovery in domestic and external demand and of wage increases in industries with acute labor shortages. Members concurred that Japan's exports of goods, mainly automobile-related ones, were expected to increase clearly for the time being as supply-side constraints on parts waned. Members agreed that an uptrend in business fixed investment was expected to become clear -- mainly for machinery and digital-related investments as well as for research and development (R&D) investment related to decarbonization -- supported by improvement in corporate profits, accommodative financial conditions, and the government's economic measures. Members shared the view that inflation expectations had risen moderately. Sustained growth in demand for business fixed investment could be expected on the back of, for example, (1) an increase in production capacity, particularly of semiconductors, for which global demand continued to expand, (2) responses to climate change, (3) urban development projects, and (4) an expansion of logistics facilities. Members agreed that private consumption, despite being restrained for the time being, mainly through vigilance against COVID-19, was expected to recover, supported by the materialization of pent-up demand -- such as for services -- and by the government's economic measures, as the resumption of consumption activities progressed while public health was being protected, mainly due to the widespread vaccinations. Members shared the view that employee income was likely to increase moderately on the back of a rise in the number of employees that reflected the recovery in domestic and external demand and of wage increases in industries with acute labor shortage. Members then discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's price developments. They agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase in positive territory for the time being, albeit with fluctuations, on the back of a rise in energy prices, a moderate pass-through of raw material cost increases, and dissipation of the effects of the reduction in mobile phone charges. Members also shared the view that, thereafter, although the positive contribution of the rise in energy prices was projected to wane, the rate of increase in the CPI was expected to stay at around 1 percent toward the end of the projection period, due to the underlying inflationary pressure stemming mainly from improvement in the output gap and a rise in medium- to long-term inflation expectations. Members shared the view that, although the output gap -- which captures the utilization of labor and capital -- had been negative recently, it was projected to turn positive around the first half of fiscal 2022 with the economy returning to a growth path that outpaced its potential growth rate, and then continue to expand moderately. Members then discussed upside and downside risks to economic activity and prices. Members concurred that the impact of COVID-19 on private consumption, as well as on firms' export and production activities, warranted attention. Members shared the recognition that, as the Bank pursued Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, financial conditions would remain accommodative and that this would support an increase in private demand. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase a necessary amount of JGBs without setting an upper limit so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will purchase ETFs and J-REITs as necessary with upper limits of about 12 trillion yen and about 180 billion yen, respectively, on annual paces of increase in their amounts outstanding. The Bank will purchase CP and corporate bonds with an upper limit on the amount outstanding of about 20 trillion yen in total until the end of March 2022. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board decided the text of 'The Bank's View' by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of December 16 and 17, 2021, for release on January 21, 2022. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to extend by one year the deadline for loan disbursement under the Fund-Provisioning Measure to Stimulate Bank Lending. The Bank will continue with Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control, aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. For the time being, the Bank will closely monitor the impact of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if necessary, and also it expects short- and long-term policy interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels. Voting against the action: Mr. KATAOKA Goushi. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to further strengthen monetary easing by lowering short- and long-term interest rates, with a view to encouraging firms to make active business fixed investment for the post-COVID-19 era. Kataoka dissented, considering that further coordination of fiscal and monetary policy was necessary and it was appropriate for the Bank to revise the forward guidance for the policy rates to relate it to the price stability target.