A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, June 13, 2024, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:33 p.m., and on Friday, June 14, from 9:00 a.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on April 25 and 26, 2024. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.076 to 0.078 percent. Meanwhile, regarding purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), CP, and corporate bonds, the Bank conducted the purchases in accordance with the decisions made at the March 2024 meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments had been at low levels. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of 0.075 to 0.080 percent; general collateral (GC) repo rates had been in the range of 0 to 0.1 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) were more or less unchanged. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had increased in line with U.S. stock prices. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had risen, mainly against the background of market participants' views on the future conduct of monetary policy. Many of the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets continued to improve. The diffusion index (DI) for the degree of bond market functioning in the Bond Market Survey, despite remaining negative, continued to improve. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against both the U.S. dollar and the euro over the intermeeting period. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. economy had grown moderately, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by past policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies had started to bottom out. The Chinese economy had improved moderately, owing in part to policy support, although it continued to be affected by adjustments in the real estate market. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as signs of a pick-up had been seen in exports. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to continue growing moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of past policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. long-term interest rates had fallen due to lower-than-expected economic indicators and a slower rise in price indicators. European long-term interest rates were more or less unchanged. stock prices had risen, reflecting the decline in U.S. interest rates and solid corporate results of high-tech firms. Stock prices in Europe had also risen, in line with those in the United States. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had been more or less flat. Crude oil prices had fallen on the back of the decision by OPEC Plus to gradually unwind its oil production cuts and because of an upswing in U.S. crude oil inventories. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, it was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Exports had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, they were projected to continue showing similar developments for the time being. Thereafter, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a pick-up in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat as a trend, but it continued to be pushed down recently by a suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. Regarding the outlook, industrial production was likely to remain more or less flat for the time being. Thereafter, it was likely to return to an uptrend, reflecting developments in domestic and overseas demand, such as a global pick-up in IT-related goods. Corporate profits had improved. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits followed an improving trend. Private consumption had been resilient, although the impact of price rises remained and automobile sales continued to be pushed down by the suspension of shipment at some automakers. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had declined for the January-March quarter of 2024, due to the effects of mild winter weather and suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. It had then increased slightly for April relative to that quarter, with a pick-up in automobile sales. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption since May seemed to have been resilient, although an intensified thriftiness among households that reflected price rises continued to be pointed out by some firms. While consumer sentiment continued to improve until recently, it was currently deteriorating somewhat. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to increase moderately, partly due to the effects of the government's economic measures and with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, it was likely to continue increasing moderately as employee income continued to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees had also been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity and the results of the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. The year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was likely to gradually turn positive despite the effects of energy prices. As for prices, commodity prices had risen on the whole. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had been slightly positive recently, as there had been a pass-through to selling prices of rises in raw material costs and personnel expenses in particular. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) had accelerated, mainly on the back of the rise in personnel expenses, and had been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent recently. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 2.0-2.5 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, although the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food), while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, the rate of increase was projected to be pushed up through fiscal 2025 by factors such as a waning of the effects of the government's economic measures pushing down CPI inflation. Meanwhile, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that the output gap would improve and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with a virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period of the April Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook Report), underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased but remained at low levels. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been in the range of 1.0-1.5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been at around 2.0 percent. Members concurred that market sentiment had improved, reflecting the fall in U.S. long-term interest rates. A few members noted that exchange rate movements against the U.S. dollar had tended to be more volatile as market attention had focused on developments in U.S. monetary policy. Members shared the recognition that overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. One member expressed the view that, albeit with significant differences in degree across countries and regions, overseas economies as a whole had gradually started to shift away from the phase of monetary tightening, with inflation rates decelerating. One member was of the view that uncertainties over the outlook for overseas economies had declined. On the other hand, a few members pointed to the persisting risk of inflation rates rising again, given heightened geopolitical risks such as increased tension over the situation in the Middle East and growing trade friction between China and other economies. Members agreed that the U.S. economy had grown moderately, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by past policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Some members expressed the view that the decline in the U.S. inflation rate remained only moderate to date on the back of firm private consumption. Nevertheless, one of these members added that the number of economic indicators showing a decelerating trend had recently started to increase, including indicators of private consumption. Members shared the recognition that European economies had started to bottom out. A few members expressed the view that signs of improvement had been observed in part, such as in the services industry. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy had improved moderately, owing in part to policy support, although it continued to be affected by adjustments in the real estate market. Some members noted that, with the economy facing the problem of excess production, the growing trade friction with advanced economies could push down its exports. Regarding emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, members shared the recognition that these economies had improved moderately on the whole, as signs of a pick-up had been seen in exports. Based on the above deliberations on economic and financial conditions abroad, members discussed the state of Japan's economy. With regard to economic activity, members agreed that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. One member expressed the view that, although there had been some data showing relatively weak developments and some information raising concerns since the previous meeting, the virtuous economic cycle remained intact, being supported from the income side by significantly high levels of corporate profits and by the highest level of wage growth in around three decades, achieved in the 2024 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as the virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. A few members expressed the view that it was highly likely that the suspension of production and shipment at some automakers would only be a temporary factor pushing down the economy. These members then pointed out that, with the wide range of supporting industries in Japan's automobile industry, it was necessary to closely monitor whether the economic cycle would be affected if the effects of the suspension were prolonged. Members shared the recognition that exports had been more or less flat. Members shared the recognition that industrial production had been more or less flat as a trend, but it continued to be pushed down recently by the suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. One member noted that, although the effects of additional suspension of production and shipment did not seem to be large at this point, it was necessary to assess the effects by taking into account reports to be presented at the July 2024 meeting of the general managers of the Bank's branches. Members agreed that business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. A few members expressed the view that investment demand induced by an industrial cluster composed mainly of semiconductor-related firms had gradually started to be seen. A different member pointed out that, although software investment to address labor shortages in particular and a reconfiguration of supply chains would likely underpin the increase in business fixed investment, attention was warranted mainly on the point that, from the viewpoint of the capital stock cycle, it was suggested that adjustment pressure on business fixed investment might have started to rise. In addition, while pointing out the recent increase in firms' share buybacks, one member noted that whether firms would allocate their cash reserves to investment in growth areas warranted attention. Meanwhile, one member noted that small and medium-sized firms' profitability had been weaker than that of larger firms, which had improved significantly compared with pre-pandemic levels, and their investment and wage growth had also been low. On this basis, the member expressed the view that, given certain structural issues in Japan -- such as the declining birthrate and aging population -- and the decline in its international competitiveness, to realize a virtuous cycle between wages and prices, it was necessary to create a growth spiral through the following: growth-oriented small, medium-sized, and larger firms boosting their investment while strengthening their business structures, and startups making great advancements, so that all these firms attract funds and talent. Members concurred that private consumption had been resilient, although the impact of price rises remained and automobile sales continued to be pushed down by the suspension of shipment at some automakers. Many members expressed the recognition that consumption of nondurable goods remained somewhat weak, mainly due to high prices, and consumer sentiment had recently shown some weakness. As background to the deterioration in consumer sentiment, a few of these members pointed out that, in addition to rising electricity charges, there had been recognition of the upside risks to prices reflecting the yen's depreciation. A few members pointed out that, although the effects of the yen's depreciation varied depending on economic entity, at this point it was necessary to pay further attention to the negative effects of the depreciation mainly on households' real income and sentiment. One of these members added that, with rapid movements in foreign exchange rates, progress in economic structural changes had not been able to keep up with these movements, and it had therefore been difficult for Japan's economy as a whole to receive the benefits of the yen's depreciation. Some members noted that close attention needed to be paid to the extent to which an improvement in income -- mainly reflecting wage hikes seen in spring 2024, an upward revision of pensions, and the government's economic measures -- would push up private consumption. In addition, a few members added that, if summer bonuses increased, supported by favorable business performance, this could also underpin private consumption. Members shared the recognition that consumer sentiment had recently shown some weakness. Members agreed that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 2.0-2.5 percent recently. Members agreed that inflation expectations had risen moderately. Members shared the view that the Bank would conduct monetary policy as appropriate, in response to developments in economic activity and prices. Members shared the recognition that the price stability target was 2 percent. Members agreed that prices were likely to continue rising. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. Members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to reduce its purchase amount of JGBs. Members agreed to decide at this meeting the guideline for reducing the subsequent purchase amount of JGBs. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a unanimous vote. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0 to 0.1 percent. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. The Bank will reduce its purchase amount of JGBs thereafter to ensure that long-term interest rates will be formed more freely in financial markets. It will collect views from market participants and, at the next Monetary Policy Meeting, will decide on a detailed plan for the reduction of its purchase amount during the next one to two years or so. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The minutes of this meeting were approved by the Policy Board at the Monetary Policy Meeting held on July 30 and 31, 2024, as "a document describing an outline of the discussion at the meeting" stipulated in Article 20, paragraph 1 of the Bank of Japan Act of 1997.