A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Monday, January 20, 2020, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:16 p.m., and on Tuesday, January 21, from 9:00 a.m. In accordance with the short-term policy interest rate of minus 0.1 percent and the target level of the long-term interest rate, both of which were decided at the previous meeting on December 18 and 19, 2019, the Bank had been providing funds through purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs) and other measures. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments generally had been in negative territory. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of around minus 0.02 to minus 0.07 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had risen somewhat, reflecting expectations for successive issuance from the turn of 2020, but had been in the range of around minus 0.1 to minus 0.2 percent. The Nikkei Stock Average had been at around the high level last seen at the beginning of 2019, albeit with fluctuations, generally remaining at the same level as at the time of the previous meeting throughout the intermeeting period. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had been depreciating somewhat against the U.S. dollar and the euro compared with at the time of the previous meeting throughout the intermeeting period, although it had appreciated somewhat when geopolitical risks in the Middle East heightened. Overseas economies had been growing moderately on the whole, albeit with slowdowns continuing to be observed. With regard to the outlook, although a pick-up in the growth pace of these economies was likely to take some time, their growth rates were projected to rise thereafter -- on the back of the materialization of the effects of macroeconomic policies in each country as well as a pick-up in the manufacturing sector, due mainly to the global cycle for IT-related goods shifting toward a phase of improvement -- and these economies were likely to grow moderately on the whole. economy had been expanding moderately, although some weakness had been seen in the manufacturing sector. Private consumption had been increasing, supported in part by a favorable employment and income situation and consumer sentiment. On the other hand, exports remained more or less flat, mainly due to the effects of the U.S.-China trade friction, and business fixed investment continued to show relatively weak developments, mainly against the backdrop of a deterioration in business sentiment of manufacturing firms. As for prices, both the year-on-year rate of change in the personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflator for all items and that for all items excluding food and energy had been at around 1.5 percent. The economy was likely to maintain its moderate expansion, partly underpinned by accommodative financial conditions, although the effects of the U.S.-China trade friction were likely to remain for the time being. The European economy remained in the deceleration phase, mainly due to adjustments in the manufacturing sector. Exports continued to show relatively weak developments. Business fixed investment remained more or less flat, mainly against the background of continued deterioration in business sentiment of manufacturing firms. Private consumption generally had been on an increasing trend, partly supported by a favorable employment and income situation and consumer sentiment. With regard to prices, both the year-on-year rate of change in the Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) for all items and that for all items excluding energy, food, alcohol, and tobacco had been at around 1 percent. The European economy was likely to gradually move out of its deceleration phase, reflecting the pick-up in the manufacturing sector. Meanwhile, the U.K. economy had weakened somewhat, due in part to the effects of movements ahead of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (EU). With regard to emerging economies, the Chinese economy continued to see stable growth on the whole, but some weakness remained in the manufacturing sector. As for prices, the year-on-year rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI) had been in the range of 4-5 percent. The economy was likely to broadly follow a stable growth path with the authorities implementing macroeconomic policies in an incremental manner, despite being affected to some extent by the trade friction with the United States and the authorities' measures to push forward with deleveraging. In the NIEs and the ASEAN countries, while exports had been relatively weak, especially to China, domestic demand had been resilient, mainly on the back of favorable consumer sentiment and the effects of those economies' macroeconomic policies. Economic activity in Russia and Brazil had been recovering moderately, mainly on the back of stable inflation rates. In India, the economy was in a deceleration phase, with relatively weak developments observed mainly in private consumption and business fixed investment. With respect to overseas financial markets, although there had been temporary fluctuations due to heightened geopolitical risks in the Middle East, market sentiment continued to improve, mainly reflecting progress in the U.S.-China trade negotiations. Under these circumstances, U.S. and European stock prices had risen somewhat compared with at the time of the previous meeting. While long-term interest rates in the United States had declined somewhat compared with at the time of the previous meeting, those in Europe had risen somewhat. Crude oil prices had risen temporarily due to heightened geopolitical risks in the Middle East, but declined thereafter, reflecting speculation over an increase in crude oil production. Japan's economy had been on a moderate expanding trend, with a virtuous cycle from income to spending operating, although exports, production, and business sentiment had shown some weakness, mainly affected by the slowdown in overseas economies and by natural disasters. With regard to the outlook, it was likely to continue on that trend as the impact of the slowdown in overseas economies on domestic demand was expected to be limited, although that impact was likely to remain for the time being. Exports continued to show some weakness. While IT-related exports had been on an uptrend, automobile-related ones had registered a relatively large decline and exports of capital goods remained on a somewhat weakening trend. Exports overall were projected to still show some weakness for the time being, mainly in automobile-related and capital goods, although IT-related exports were likely to maintain an uptrend. They were expected to return to their moderate increasing trend thereafter with the growth rates of overseas economies rising. Public investment had increased moderately. The amount of public construction completed had increased for three consecutive quarters since the January-March quarter of 2019, and also was positive for October relative to the July-September quarter. As for the outlook, public investment was likely to continue increasing moderately, due to expansion such as in construction related to restoration and reconstruction following natural disasters as well as to national resilience -- which reflected the latest economic measures -- in addition to the progress in construction of temporary facilities for the Olympic Games. Corporate profits had been at high levels on the whole, albeit with some weakness observed in part. Although business sentiment of manufacturing firms clearly had become cautious, that of nonmanufacturing firms stayed at a favorable level on the whole. Business fixed investment continued on an increasing trend. The aggregate supply of capital goods was more or less flat recently, mainly due to the effects of the slowdown in overseas economies. Private construction completed (nonresidential) maintained its moderate uptrend from a somewhat longer-term perspective, although its pace of increase had decelerated, partly due to a peak-out of Olympic Games-related demand. With regard to the outlook, business fixed investment was likely to decelerate temporarily for the time being, mainly for machinery investment by manufacturing firms, due to the effects of the slowdown in overseas economies. However, it was expected to increase moderately from a somewhat longer-term perspective, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions. As for the employment and income situation, supply-demand conditions in the labor market remained tight and employee income had increased. The unemployment rate remained at around the lowest level observed in the current economic expansion phase. The active job openings-to-applicants ratio remained at a high level that exceeded the peak marked during the bubble period, although it had declined slightly since the end of 2018 due to the effects of the slowdown in overseas economies. Private consumption had been increasing moderately, albeit with fluctuations due to such effects as of the October 2019 consumption tax hike, against the background of steady improvement in the employment and income situation. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) -- calculated by combining various sales and supply-side statistics -- had shown a relatively significant decline recently, mainly due to the decline in demand following the tax hike and the effects of natural disasters. In the outlook, downward pressure on private consumption stemming from the reactionary decline to the increase in demand prior to the tax hike and the decrease in real income was likely to remain for the time being but wane gradually, underpinned by various support measures for households and the improvement in the employment and income situation. Thereafter, private consumption was expected to continue on a moderate increasing trend, supported by the increase in employee income and the wealth effects stemming from a rise in stock prices. Housing investment had been more or less flat. Looking at the number of housing starts, (1) owned houses had seen a decrease in demand, albeit to a small extent compared with that of the previous tax hike in 2014, and (2) detached houses built for sale had been more or less flat, albeit with fluctuations that resulted from developments in large-scale properties, whereas (3) housing for rent continued on a downtrend, mainly against the background of waning demand for tax saving and asset management as well as cautious lending attitudes of financial institutions. Industrial production had declined recently, due partly to the effects of natural disasters, with the continued slowdown in overseas economies. It was projected to turn to a moderate increase, as the effects of the consumption tax hike would wane and IT-related exports would follow an uptrend for the time being, while an acceleration in production that more than offset the impact of natural disasters would exert upward pressure. As for prices, the rate of decline in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier -- excluding the direct effects of the consumption tax hike and adjusted for the effects of seasonal changes in electricity rates -- had decelerated, reflecting developments in international commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI for all items less fresh food was at around 0.5 percent, and that for all items less fresh food and energy was in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent. With regard to the outlook, despite such effects as of the past decline in crude oil prices for the time being, the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI for all items less fresh food was likely to increase gradually toward 2 percent, mainly on the back of the output gap remaining positive and medium- to long-term inflation expectations rising, both in a situation where the economy continued on an expanding trend. Financial conditions were highly accommodative. Inflation expectations were more or less unchanged. Long-term real interest rates -- calculated as long-term interest rates minus medium- to long-term inflation expectations -- had been negative. Firms' funding costs had been hovering at extremely low levels. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes -- as perceived by firms -- had been highly accommodative. Issuing conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. Firms' credit demand had been increasing, such as for funds for business fixed investment and for those related to mergers and acquisitions. Against this backdrop, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 2 percent. That in the amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been at a relatively high level of around 9 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The year-on-year rate of increase in the monetary base had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent, and that in the money stock had been in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent. Members recognize that Japan's economy is growing moderately as a whole. Members agreed that there were some weaknesses in exports, production, and business sentiment due to the slowdown in overseas economies and natural disasters. Members pointed out that considering the firm underlying trend in domestic demand, Japan's economy is expected to continue to expand moderately. Members agreed that public investment had increased moderately. Members recognize that business fixed investment continues to trend upward. Members recognize that supply-demand conditions in the labor market remain tight. Members agreed that private consumption had been increasing moderately. Members recognize that housing investment has been more or less flat. Members agreed that industrial production had declined recently. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was at around 0.5 percent. Members recognize that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI is likely to gradually increase toward 2 percent amid the ongoing expansion of economic activity. Members concurred that the impact of the slowdown in overseas economies on domestic demand was expected to be limited. Japan's economy had grown at a slower pace than its potential recently, but it was expected to see an acceleration in its growth pace thereafter. Most members shared the view that the year-on-year rate of change in the CPI was likely to increase gradually toward 2 percent. A few members expressed the view that, in order to maintain this cycle, it was necessary to continue raising wages. Members concurred that, with regard to the outlook for economic activity, risks were skewed to the downside. Members shared the recognition that, regarding the outlook for prices, risks to prices were skewed to the downside. Most members shared the recognition that it was appropriate to persistently continue with the current powerful monetary easing. Members deliberated over points to take into account in conducting monetary policy in the future. The Bank would purchase JGBs so that 10-year JGB yields would remain at around 0 percent. Members shared the recognition that it was appropriate for the Bank to implement the following guideline for the intermeeting period. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase JGBs so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. While doing so, the yields may move upward and downward to some extent mainly depending on developments in economic activity and prices. With regard to the amount of JGBs to be purchased, the Bank will conduct purchases in a flexible manner so that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about 80 trillion yen. The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. The Bank may increase or decrease the amount of purchases depending on market conditions. The Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2.2 trillion yen and about 3.2 trillion yen, respectively. The Policy Board decided the proposal by a majority vote. Harada dissented, considering that allowing the long-term yields to move upward and downward to some extent was too ambiguous as the guideline for market operations decided by the Policy Board. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to strengthen monetary easing by lowering the short-term policy interest rate. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. It was confirmed that the statement would be released immediately after the meeting. The Policy Board approved unanimously the minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of December 18 and 19, 2019, for release on January 24, 2020. The Bank will continue with 'Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control,' aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner.