A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, April 30, 2025, from 2:00 p.m. to 3:55 p.m., and on Thursday, May 1, from 9:00 a.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on March 18 and 19, 2025. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.476 to 0.477 percent. Meanwhile, in March 2025, the Bank conducted Japanese government bond (JGB) purchases of about 4.5 trillion yen per month. In April 2025, it cut down the monthly purchase amount by about 400 billion yen, to about 4.1 trillion yen per month; this was in accordance with the JGB reduction plan decided at the July 2024 meeting. In the money market, the uncollateralized overnight call rate had been at around 0.5 percent. The general collateral (GC) repo rate had been at around the same level as the uncollateralized overnight call rate on the whole. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) had increased slightly. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had declined in line with U.S. stock prices, and also partly due to the yen's appreciation. While yields on 10-year JGBs had fluctuated in both directions, moving in line with U.S. long-term interest rates, they had generally declined over the intermeeting period, against the background of factors such as a change in market views on the Bank's future monetary policy. The liquidity indicators in the JGB markets showed that, while transaction volume had been at a relatively high level compared to 2024, bid-ask spreads had deteriorated after the turn of April 2025, as volatility in the JGB markets had increased. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had appreciated against the U.S. dollar, partly due to dollar selling driven by factors such as concerns over a slowdown in the U.S. economy, while yen purchasing had increased with market participants shifting into 'risk-off' mode. The yen had been more or less flat against the euro. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole, although some weakness had been seen in part, reflecting trade and other policies in each jurisdiction. economy had grown moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. European economies had been relatively weak, mainly in manufacturing. As for the Chinese economy, despite government support, the pace of improvement in the economy had been on a slowing trend, with continued downward pressure from adjustments in the real estate and labor markets. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole. As for the outlook, although trade and other policies in each jurisdiction were expected to lead to a slowdown in overseas economies, they were projected to see a gradual acceleration in their growth rate thereafter, and then grow moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the future course of policy conduct in each jurisdiction, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, market sentiment deteriorated significantly in early April 2025 due to heightened uncertainties regarding the future course and impact of trade and other policies in each jurisdiction. Although further deterioration in market sentiment had been avoided, reflecting factors such as a pause in the implementation of some tariffs, overseas financial markets continued to see large fluctuations recently. long-term interest rates had declined temporarily through early April but had then risen considerably, marking an overall slight increase over the intermeeting period. European long-term interest rates had decreased significantly, mainly because market expectations of policy interest rate cuts by the European Central Bank (ECB) had increased. and European stock prices declined substantially in early April. Although they had subsequently rebounded, U.S. and European stock prices had marked an overall decline over the intermeeting period. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had temporarily depreciated significantly as investors' risk aversion had heightened, given trade policies worldwide, but had then recovered somewhat. Crude oil prices had fallen due to concerns over a decline in demand that reflected trade and other policies in each jurisdiction. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, economic growth was likely to moderate as trade and other policies in each jurisdiction led to a slowdown in overseas economies and to a decline in domestic corporate profits and other factors, although factors such as accommodative financial conditions were expected to provide support. Exports and industrial production continued to be more or less flat as a trend, although there had been some front-loading due to the increase in U.S. Regarding the outlook, exports and industrial production were likely to be generally under increasing downward pressure stemming from the slowdown in overseas economies, while the front-loading due to the increase in U.S. tariffs and a reactionary decline were likely to be seen. Corporate profits had been on an improving trend. Business sentiment had stayed at a favorable level. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, growth momentum in business fixed investment was highly likely to slow. This was because, although moves to clear order backlogs and labor-saving investment to address labor shortages were expected to provide some support, a deterioration in the profit environment and heightened uncertainties were likely to push down business fixed investment. Private consumption maintained its moderate increasing trend against the background of an improvement in the employment and income situation, despite weakness in consumer sentiment due to the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased slightly on average for the January-February period of 2025 relative to the October-December quarter of 2024, supported by an increase in services consumption. Based on anecdotal information from firms, statistics published by industry organizations, and high-frequency indicators, private consumption since March 2025 seemed to have been on a moderate increasing trend, particularly in services, although there continued to be some firms that had pointed to consumers' increased thriftiness. Consumer sentiment remained on a deteriorating trend, mainly led by a rise in prices of food, such as rice and fresh food; it should be noted that these latest data on consumer sentiment did not reflect the increase in volatility in financial markets after U.S. reciprocal tariffs were announced on April 2, 2025. Regarding the outlook, although private consumption was expected to continue to be affected for the time being by the deterioration in consumer sentiment stemming from the rise in food prices, it was projected to maintain its moderate increasing trend, as wage increases continued as a result of the annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. The number of employed persons continued to increase steadily, mainly for regular employees. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly. With regard to the outlook, employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase for the time being, supported by the rise in nominal wages reflecting the 2025 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Thereafter, as downward pressure on special cash earnings (bonuses) was likely to strengthen due to a deterioration in corporate profits, the pace of increase in employee income was projected to decelerate. As for prices, commodity prices had been on a downtrend on the whole due to vigilance against the expected slowdown in overseas economies. The rate of increase in the producer price index (PPI, adjusted for the effects of seasonal changes in electricity rates) relative to three months earlier had been in the range of around 0.5-1.0 percent recently. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high, being in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently, mainly on the back of a rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently, as moves to pass on wage increases to selling prices continued, and as there had been effects of the past rise in import prices and of the rise in food prices, such as rice prices. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook, for the time being, the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI was likely to remain at around the current level due to upward pressure from the rise in food prices, such as rice prices, and from a dissipation of the effects of the government's measures to reduce the household burden of higher energy prices. Thereafter, the rate of increase was expected to decelerate toward the end of 2025, albeit with fluctuations reflecting energy prices, as the impact of the rise in food prices was likely to dissipate. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. Firms' moves to accumulate cash reserves against the background of heightened uncertainties regarding trade and other policies in each jurisdiction were limited at this point. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP had been favorable. In the corporate bond market, issuance conditions remained favorable on the whole, although a widening of issuance spreads had been seen in part and some firms had delayed issuance of bonds since the turn of April, reflecting factors such as the increased volatility in the market. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3 percent; that in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been in the range of 4.5-5.0 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The pace of increase in the number of bankruptcies of firms had slowed. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been in the range of 0.5-1.0 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, owing in particular to a rise in net interest income, mainly composed of interest on loans, and to an increase in net non-interest income, such as fees and commissions. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had been firm, mainly on the back of the rise in net interest income. With regard to the financial cycle, of the Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, 12 showed neither an overheating nor a contraction of financial activities, and two -- including one indicating stock prices -- showed deviations from the trends, toward overheating. Regarding the financial gap, the positive gap remained narrower than a while ago, and there had been no overheating of financial activities overall. However, attention continued to be warranted on the pace of increase in real estate prices, and it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether financial activities would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. In addition, given the extremely high uncertainties regarding trade and other policies in each jurisdiction, it was necessary to carefully monitor the impact these policies had on the financial system through various channels. Members shared the view that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. Members discussed the state of Japan's economic activity and prices. Members shared the view that private consumption maintained its moderate increasing trend against the background of the improvement in the employment and income situation. One member pointed out that the aggregate results of the 2025 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations showed that the agreed wage growth rate had exceeded the 2024 level. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent recently. Members first exchanged views on the assumptions for the baseline scenario of the outlook in formulating the April Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices. Members discussed the impact of trade policy on prices in Japan. Members discussed upside and downside risks to economic activity and prices. The Policy Board decided the text by a unanimous vote. The Policy Board decided the text of "The Bank's View" by a unanimous vote. The Bank will encourage the uncollateralized overnight call rate to remain at around 0.5 percent.