A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Thursday, April 25, 2024, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:10 p.m., and on Friday, April 26, from 9:00 a.m. The Bank had been conducting market operations in accordance with the guideline for market operations decided at the previous meeting on March 18 and 19, 2024. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.074 to 0.077 percent. Meanwhile, regarding purchases of Japanese government bonds (JGBs), CP, and corporate bonds, the Bank conducted the purchases in accordance with the decisions made at the March 2024 meeting. In the money market, interest rates on both overnight and term instruments had been at low levels. With regard to interest rates on overnight instruments, the uncollateralized call rate had been in the range of around 0.075 to 0.080 percent due to the termination of the negative interest rate policy; general collateral (GC) repo rates had turned positive, being at a level below 0.1 percent. As for interest rates on term instruments, yields on three-month treasury discount bills (T-Bills) were more or less unchanged over the intermeeting period. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had declined somewhat, reflecting a decrease in U.S. stock prices and increased tension over the situation in the Middle East. Long-term interest rates (10-year JGB yields) had declined somewhat through the end of March, and since the start of April had increased in line with a rise in U.S. interest rates; they had risen slightly over the intermeeting period. Looking at the liquidity indicators in the JGB markets, inter-dealer transaction volume for cash JGBs had increased, albeit with some fluctuations, and market depth, price impact, and daily price range to transaction volume ratio of JGB futures and bid-ask spreads for the newly issued cash JGBs continued to improve. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar as the yield differential between Japan and the United States had widened. The yen had also depreciated against the euro. The pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the European Central Bank (ECB). The Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly affected by adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as signs of a pick-up had been seen in exports. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to gradually move out of the phase of slow recovery and grow moderately. There were considerably high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of past policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, long-term interest rates in the United States had risen substantially since market expectations for policy interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve had subsided due to higher-than-expected economic and price indicators. stock prices had declined slightly, due to the rise in U.S. interest rates, increased tension over the situation in the Middle East, and the corporate results of some high-tech firms, although solid economic indicators were viewed positively by market participants. In Europe, long-term interest rates had risen slightly and stock prices were more or less unchanged. Meanwhile, currencies in emerging economies had declined while the U.S. dollar had appreciated. Crude oil prices had risen slightly over the intermeeting period, albeit with some fluctuations due to heightened geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, it was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies growing moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Although exports had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, as overseas economies grew moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a pick-up in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat as a trend, but it had declined recently, partly due to the effects of a suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. Regarding the outlook, industrial production was likely to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a pick-up in global demand for IT-related goods. Corporate profits had improved. Business sentiment had stayed at a favorable level. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits followed an improving trend. Private consumption had been resilient, although the impact of price rises and developments such as a decline in automobile sales due to the suspension of shipment at some automakers had been observed. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had declined slightly for the January-February period of 2024, due to the effects of mild winter weather and suspension of shipment at some automakers. However, when excluding the effects of these temporary factors that had pushed down private consumption, consumption had been resilient, particularly for services consumption, despite being affected by prices rises. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, with respect to private consumption for March 2024, many had indicated a weakness in expenditure related to spring apparel and going out, due partly to adverse weather conditions. Nevertheless, since the beginning of April, signs of a pick-up had been noted. Although an intensified thriftiness among households that reflected price rises continued to be pointed out by some firms, private consumption seemed to have been resilient. Consumer sentiment had been improving recently. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to increase moderately, partly due to the effects of the government's economic measures and with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, it was projected to continue increasing moderately as employee income kept improving. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees had also been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations. Nominal wages per employee had increased moderately, reflecting the recovery in economic activity and the results of the 2023 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations. Corporate managers' responses to the 2024 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations revealed to date showed that wage increases for 2024, including regular seniority-based ones, had been above 5.0 percent, and the rate of increase in base pay for 2024 had been at around 3.5 percent, both significantly exceeding the 2023 levels. According to anecdotal information from firms and other sources, as labor shortages had intensified, moves to set a rate of increase in wages that exceeded the 2023 level were likely to spread among small and medium-sized firms, albeit with significant differences in degree, partly reflecting the fact that large firms would raise their wages significantly. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. The year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was likely to gradually turn positive despite the effects of energy prices. As for prices, commodity prices had risen on the whole. The rate of change in the producer price index (PPI) relative to three months earlier had been slightly positive recently, mainly due to the impact of the rise in crude oil prices since the end of 2023. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 2.5 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, although the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food), while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, the rate of increase was projected to be pushed up through fiscal 2025 by the effects of the recent rise in energy prices and a waning of the effects of the government's economic measures pushing down CPI inflation. Thus, the rate of increase was likely to be in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent for fiscal 2024, and be at around 2 percent thereafter. Meanwhile, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that the output gap would improve and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with a virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period, underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Firms' funding costs had increased recently but remained at low levels. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3.5 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been in the range of 1.5-2.0 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The number of bankruptcies of firms had increased. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the monetary base had been at around 1.5 percent. That in the money stock had been at around 2.5 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, mainly owing to increases in interest on loans, as well as income from fees and commissions. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels on the whole. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had been firm as the amount outstanding of bank lending continued to increase. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels. With regard to the financial cycle, of the Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, 13 showed neither an overheating nor a contraction of financial activities. Regarding the financial gap, the positive gap had narrowed due to the rebalancing of private debt and economic activity, reflecting the recovery of economic activity. Although stock prices had risen and valuations of some properties in the real estate market seemed relatively high, there had been no overheating of financial activities overall so far. However, it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether financial activities would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. With regard to the Kumamoto Earthquake, one of the designated disasters specified in the 'Principal Terms and Conditions for the Funds-Supplying Operation to Support Financial Institutions in Disaster Areas,' it was deemed that the purpose of the operation to support efforts toward restoration and reconstruction made by financial institutions in disaster areas had been achieved, considering the usage of loans under the operation and whether relevant public support measures remained in place. Therefore, the Bank could amend the 'Principal Terms and Conditions for the Funds-Supplying Operation to Support Financial Institutions in Disaster Areas,' and remove the Kumamoto Earthquake from the category of designated disasters. Members voted unanimously to approve the amendment. It was confirmed that this would be made public after the meeting. Members concurred that, while attention continued to be drawn to uncertainties over the outlook for the global economy, market participants had again heightened their vigilance against the possibility of prolonged monetary tightening by the Federal Reserve. Some members pointed out that the effects of the heightening had been reflected in recent developments in foreign exchange markets. Members shared the recognition that the pace of recovery in overseas economies had slowed. Members agreed that the U.S. economy had been firm, mainly led by private consumption, although it had been affected by policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. On this basis, some members pointed out that U.S. economic indicators, mainly those of private consumption, had been firmer than expected. One of these members pointed out that upward revisions had been observed in the outlook for overseas economies overall, particularly for the U.S. The member then expressed the view that the firmer-than-expected U.S. economy was mainly attributable to the fact that firms' and households' balance sheets had been sound. A few members added that elevated inflation due to firm economic activity had caused market participants to anticipate prolonged monetary tightening by the Federal Reserve. One member expressed the view that the effects of monetary tightening had not become apparent in the United States, partly because of a supply-side factor, that is, a substantial increase in immigration, and therefore future developments in labor markets warranted close attention. Members shared the recognition that European economies kept slowing moderately as they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the ECB. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly affected by adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. Some members pointed out that it remained highly uncertain whether the economy would return to a stable growth path, although a slowing trend in the economy had been staved off, partly due to stronger responses by the government. One of these members said that structural problems regarding domestic demand shortages, mainly due to the declining and aging population, and excessive supply had not improved, and adjustments in the real estate market continued. A different member expressed the view that the economy could be entering into deflation. Regarding emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China, members shared the recognition that these economies had improved moderately on the whole, as signs of a pick-up had been seen in exports. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. In addition, they shared the view that firms' funding costs had increased recently but remained at low levels. Based on the above deliberations on economic and financial conditions abroad and financial conditions in Japan, members discussed the state of Japan's economic activity and prices. With regard to economic activity, members shared the recognition that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that, although exports had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat. Members shared the view that industrial production had been more or less flat as a trend, but it had declined recently, partly due to the effects of the suspension of production and shipment at some automakers. Members shared the view that they continued to be affected by factors such as policy interest rate hikes by the ECB. Members shared the view that the Chinese economy remained on a moderate slowing trend, mainly affected by adjustments in the real estate market, but signs of a pick-up had been observed in some aspects, such as private consumption. Some members pointed out that it remained highly uncertain whether the economy would return to a stable growth path, although a slowing trend in the economy had been staved off, partly due to stronger responses by the government. Members agreed that financial conditions in Japan had been accommodative. Members shared the recognition that Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Members concurred that, although exports had been affected by the slowdown in the pace of recovery in overseas economies, they had been more or less flat. Members shared the view that firms' funding costs had increased recently but remained at low levels. Members concurred that private consumption had been resilient, although the impact of price rises and developments such as the decline in automobile sales due to the suspension of shipment at some automakers had been observed. Members shared the view that the employment and income situation had improved moderately. Members agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) had been at around 2.5 percent recently. In formulating the April Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices, members discussed the baseline scenario of the outlook for Japan's economic activity. They shared the recognition that Japan's economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate. Members agreed that, as overseas economies grew moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend. Members concurred that, as corporate profits followed an improving trend and accommodative financial conditions provided support, business fixed investment was likely to continue on an increasing trend. Members agreed that, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to increase moderately, mainly reflecting the rise in wage growth and improvement in consumer sentiment. Members shared the view that employment was likely to continue rising, but the pace of increase was projected to moderate gradually. They agreed that the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food) was likely to be in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent for fiscal 2024. Members shared the view that risks to economic activity were generally balanced for fiscal 2024 onward.