The Bank decided, by a 7-2 majority vote, to set the following guideline for market operations for the intermeeting period. The Bank will apply a negative interest rate of minus 0.1 percent to the Policy-Rate Balances in current accounts held by financial institutions at the Bank. The Bank will purchase Japanese government bonds (JGBs) so that 10-year JGB yields will remain at around zero percent. The Bank will conduct purchases in a flexible manner so that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about 80 trillion yen. The Bank decided, by a unanimous vote, to set the following guidelines. The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Japan real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) so that their amounts outstanding will increase at annual paces of about 6 trillion yen and about 90 billion yen, respectively. The Bank will maintain their amounts outstanding at about 2.2 trillion yen and about 3.2 trillion yen, respectively. The Bank will continue with 'Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary Easing (QQE) with Yield Curve Control,' aiming to achieve the price stability target of 2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that target in a stable manner. It will continue expanding the monetary base until the year-on-year rate of increase in the observed consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) exceeds 2 percent and stays above the target in a stable manner. As for the policy rates, the Bank expects short- and long-term interest rates to remain at their present or lower levels as long as it is necessary to pay close attention to the possibility that the momentum toward achieving the price stability target will be lost. In particular, in a situation where downside risks to economic activity and prices, mainly regarding developments in overseas economies, are significant, the Bank will not hesitate to take additional easing measures if there is a greater possibility that the momentum toward achieving the price stability target will be lost. Kataoka dissented, considering that it was desirable to strengthen monetary easing by lowering the short-term policy interest rate. In case of a rapid increase in the yields, the Bank will purchase JGBs promptly and appropriately.