Ms Schnabel reviewed the latest financial market developments, noting that since the Governing Council's previous monetary policy meeting on 9- March 2022 investor risk sentiment had improved considerably. Euro area equity prices had moved close to the levels recorded prior to the war in Ukraine, sovereign spreads had narrowed, and risk-free yields had increased markedly. At the same time, market-based measures of inflation compensation had continued to creep higher and stood well above the Governing Council's 2% target over the entire horizon. Developments in sovereign yields in the euro area since the previous monetary policy meeting highlighted three facts. First, the GDP-weighted sovereign yield curve in the euro area had shifted upwards since the March meeting and currently stood considerably above the levels recorded prior to the war across the entire maturity spectrum. Second, the euro area yield curve had become steeper. Third, despite the recent rise, both short and long-term euro area nominal bond yields remained low from a historical perspective. A model-based breakdown of the recent increase in ten-year euro area risk-free rates pointed to two main factors driving the upward shift in sovereign yields since the previous meeting. First, the improvement in the global and euro area macroeconomic outlook and risk sentiment suggested that investors did not see the war's effect on growth as being sufficiently strong and long-lasting to derail the recovery. The second, and related, factor reflected the anticipated monetary policy response. Consistent with expectations of continued growth and the sharp repricing of the inflation outlook, markets expected a faster pace of monetary policy normalisation in the euro area to bring real yields out of negative territory. Breaking down long-term yields into real rates and the inflation component showed that the rise in nominal long-term interest rates in the euro area since the Russian invasion of Ukraine mainly reflected a marked reappraisal of the inflation outlook by investors, while real interest rates had fallen slightly since March, despite the recent increase in nominal yields. The rising inflationary pressures were also evident from the inflation-linked swap forward curve, which had shifted markedly higher from the already elevated levels prevailing at the time of the Governing Council's previous monetary policy meeting. This increase in inflation compensation had stemmed from higher inflation risk premia. Genuine inflation expectations had increased only moderately. The sharp rise in inflation risk premia signalled that investors demanded higher compensation for holding inflation risks in their portfolio. The five-year forward inflation-linked swap rate five years ahead, which was a market-based measure of longer-term inflation expectations, stood at around 2.4%. This suggested that even over the longer term investors attached a higher probability to inflation turning out to be higher than expected, rather than lower than expected. Compared with March, the shift in market-based indicators of monetary policy expectations had been substantial. The overnight index swap (OIS) forward curve had become markedly steeper, with market participants pricing in just under a full 25 basis point rate hike in July this year and almost three 25 basis point rate hikes by the end of the year. Thereafter, markets expected the hiking cycle to continue, with six 25 basis point interest rate hikes expected in 2023. This suggested that markets saw the need for substantial policy action to secure medium-term price stability, reflecting the current, very negative, real short and long-term yields. The median participant response to the Survey of Monetary Analysts (SMA) showed that the first interest rate hike was still expected to take place in the fourth quarter of 2022, but the share of SMA participants expecting an earlier lift-off had now increased to around 40%. The expected path after lift-off, however, was substantially shallower compared with the path suggested by market pricing. This possibly indicated that rising term premia, on the back of high remaining uncertainty about the pace of policy normalisation, had contributed to the steeper forward curve, with markets' genuine expectations probably being somewhat lower than indicated by the forward curve. Higher uncertainty about expected euro short-term money market rates, as priced in by the market, was in line with the premise of the ECB's "reaction function" becoming more data-dependent. Markets were preparing for a substantially more pronounced US hiking cycle, compared with expectations in March, and now expected the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to hike rates by about 250 basis points over the next 12 months, with the federal funds rate expected to level off at a level above 3%. Moreover, the FOMC had hinted at a rapid reduction in its USD 9 trillion balance sheet, beginning as soon as at its next policy meeting in May. Limited movements in the exchange rate of the euro against the US dollar since the March monetary policy meeting suggested that the recent reappraisal by markets of the euro area monetary policy outlook was offsetting, at least in part, the downward pressure on the euro from the pronounced reappraisal of US monetary policy expectations. At the same time, the depreciation of the euro since the beginning of the year in response to the change in relative monetary policy expectations vis-à-vis the United States had been larger than was suggested by cross-country regularities. Developments in euro area sovereign bond markets were consistent with limited risks of stagnation or recession. Sovereign spreads had been on a sustained downward trend since the Governing Council's previous monetary policy meeting. Furthermore, the recent strong recovery in equity prices reflected, first and foremost, a reversal of the earlier increase in the equity risk premium, mirroring the improving risk sentiment. A more fundamental factor explaining the resilience of equity prices, and of risk assets more generally, was that the earnings outlook for euro area firms had remained relatively robust, despite the war. Earnings expectations over the next 12 months had, so far, not been lowered. Longer-term earnings expectations had decreased substantially, but had stabilised at very elevated levels. Analysts continued to expect annual earnings growth of about 20% over the next three to five years, compared with a long-run average of around 8%. The cautious optimism displayed by market participants did not mean that investors were dismissing downside risks. As geopolitical risks remained elevated, markets continued to price in heightened tail risks. For instance, downside risks to equity markets remained elevated in the euro area. Another risk emanated from high margin calls in commodity futures markets, which had caused a large increase in the liquidity demand of non-financial corporations that were hedging their energy price exposures. The global environment and economic and monetary developments in the euro area went through the latest economic, monetary and financial developments in the global economy and the euro area. For global developments, the Spring World Economic Outlook (WEO) projections from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had significantly downgraded the forecast of world GDP growth for 2022 and also for 2023. The downward revision was very large for Russia but also significant for countries close to the war zone and reliant on Russia for their imports of energy and metals. Global supply chain bottlenecks had started to ease after the turn of the year. However, as a consequence of the war and the new lockdowns in China, that easing was stalling, or even reversing, and forward-looking indicators had started to point to a deterioration in global trade dynamics. The oil price had declined notably from the peaks observed after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Compared with the day of the March Governing Council meeting, the shorter-run futures path of oil prices was lower, but it was still higher compared with the cut-off date ( February) for the March ECB staff projections. There had been relatively minor movements in the euro effective exchange rate since the March Governing Council meeting. Taking a longer-term perspective, the euro exchange rate had largely returned to pre-pandemic levels both in effective terms and against the US dollar. Turning to euro area activity, the Russian invasion of Ukraine had led to a spike in uncertainty, as indicated for example by the European Commission's uncertainty measure. The recent evolution of confidence indicators suggested a deterioration in the short-term outlook, owing to the rise in energy prices, the increased uncertainty and the new wave of supply disruptions generated by the war and the lockdowns in China. However, the outlook for the third quarter was still relatively positive, as a boost from tourism could be expected in the summer. Similarly, the assessment for the fourth quarter remained positive. So far, the assessment was that the war would lead to a temporary slowdown in growth, but not a persistent downgrade. Looking at the components of domestic demand, private consumption was likely to have contracted in the first quarter, with a negative carry-over from the drop in retail sales in December 2021 and the further rise in energy prices hitting incomes. Pandemic restrictions had been lifted, but households had shown a strong negative reaction to the outbreak of the war, with consumer expectations plunging in March. In particular, household expectations regarding their own future financial situation - which generally were a good predictor of consumer spending - had deteriorated sharply. With regard to business investment, the uncertainty shock was expected to be more harmful to investment than consumption. While investment spending plans would certainly be affected by heightened uncertainty, these plans could also be affected by the rise in energy costs. Historically, the data showed a negative relationship between production costs and the profit rate, so it should not be expected that higher costs would be fully passed through to consumer prices. While trade data capturing the outbreak of the war were not yet available, the deficit on the energy and food trade balance had continued to deteriorate since the beginning of the year, as import prices for energy and goods continued to increase. This deterioration was partly compensated for by an improvement in the non-energy and non-food trade balance. The Purchasing Managers' Index for manufacturing export orders had fallen into contractionary territory in March owing to the war in Ukraine and lockdowns in China. Looking at labour market developments, the unemployment rate continued to decline and the labour market participation rate continued to improve. Across sectors, employment in market services, including tourism, had not yet returned to its pre-pandemic level, while the public sector had been a key driver of job creation, with public sector employment standing about 3% above the pre-pandemic level at the end of 2021. However, in March 2022 household expectations regarding unemployment had increased visibly, albeit much less than at the start of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. One important factor cushioning the impact of the shock was fiscal policies. The bulk of the euro area measures addressed the hike in energy prices, but part of the new package of measures also increased spending on defence and refugees. Turning to the latest inflation developments, headline inflation in the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) had hit a new high of 7.5% in March, up from 5.9% in February. By far the biggest contribution came from the energy component, with over 4 percentage points. The recent increase in energy inflation was very large and the reaction of the economy could be subject to non-linearities, as the response of the economy - in terms of both inflation and output dynamics - might not be proportional to its response to the usually much smaller fluctuations in energy prices. Breaking down energy inflation, the fuel component, which historically accounted for the largest contribution, had been relatively stable. The recent big increases in energy inflation had instead been due to electricity and gas prices. Food inflation had also been on an upward trend since last summer and had reached 5.0% in March. Goods inflation in March had stood about 2.5 percentage points above its longer-term mean. A significant contribution of about 1 percentage point of this increase was from the pass-through of higher energy costs and from supply bottlenecks. But there was also a significant part that could not simply be attributed to the broadening of the energy shock and the impact of ongoing bottlenecks. Indicators of pipeline pressures signalled that goods inflation, which had historically been very low, would remain high not just in 2022 but also well into 2023. Services inflation had been going up, and a lot of this seemed to be in areas that were reopening. With the normalisation of travel and tourism, entertainment, restaurants and so on, services that had either cut prices or kept them low during the pandemic were now normalising prices or even increasing them by a larger margin. A lot of the indicators of underlying inflation in the euro area - both exclusion-based and model-based - had stood well above 2% in February, and HICP inflation excluding energy and food had risen to 3% in March. However, it remained uncertain how persistent the rise in these indicators would be, given the role of temporary pandemic-related factors and the indirect effects of higher energy prices. Regarding the wage outlook, growth in negotiated wages in the euro area had been gradually increasing but had remained moderate in recent months at less than 2%. Forward-looking information from wage agreements, which often spanned more than one year, supported the view that wage pressures would increase only gradually. Nominal wages were usually expected to be equal to the sum of productivity and consumer prices but could be well below that level in 2022, reflecting a decline in the labour share of income and the negative effects of high import prices on consumer prices. Looking at inflation expectations, the April Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF) showed that the distribution of individual responses had continued to shift to the right. The mode of the distribution was still at 2%, after averaging well below 2% in the 2019-21 SPF rounds. Overall, longer-term inflation expectations (for 2026) reported in the SPF averaged 2.1%, which amounted to an upward revision from 2.0% in the previous round. In both the SPF and the SMA, inflation was expected to be above 2% in 2022 and was seen as very likely to be above 2% in 2023. But for 2024 there was basically an even chance that inflation would be above or below target. This overall scenario reflected a widespread view of inflation dynamics held by experts at a variety of institutions. Regarding market-based indicators of inflation compensation, these had increased further in the euro area and the increases were particularly large at shorter horizons. For longer horizons, once these indicators were adjusted for risk premia, expectations were by and large around 2%. Turning to financial and monetary developments, financial conditions were broadly unchanged. However, since the March Governing Council meeting the €STR forward curve had shifted up markedly over short and medium-term tenors, with a steep increase seen even when adjusting for risk premia. Comparing the current forward curve with the situation at the time of the December Governing Council meeting revealed that there had been a remarkable tightening of market rates that were relevant for pricing bank loans and for sovereign bonds. Bank funding costs were increasing, driven by the rise in bank bond yields. However, the upward pressure on overall bank funding costs was limited because banks were relying on other funding sources. Interest rates on customer deposits, which accounted for almost half of bank liabilities, still hovered at historic lows, and the outstanding central bank funding continued to be at very favourable rates. Bank lending rates remained low and had so far been overall broadly shielded from the rise in market rates. According to the latest bank lending survey for the euro area, banks had reported a continued net increase in loan demand from firms in the first quarter of 2022. Banks also reported a net tightening of credit standards on loans to firms in the same quarter, mainly owing to increased risk perceptions and decreased risk tolerance. Moreover, banks expected a considerably stronger net tightening in the second quarter. Banks had reported a net increase in households' loan demand in the first quarter of 2022. Monetary policy considerations and policy options Summing up, Mr Lane stressed that the adverse economic impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine combined several mechanisms. It was evident that the war and the associated uncertainty were weighing heavily on business and consumer confidence. In addition, just as the supply disruptions from the acute phase of the pandemic were easing, the war had created new bottlenecks, while a new set of pandemic measures in Asia was also contributing to supply chain problems. Some sectors faced growing difficulties in sourcing inputs, which was disrupting production. The further sharp rises in energy and commodity prices were increasing the production costs of firms and reducing the purchasing power of households. How the economy would develop was crucially dependent on the evolution of the conflict, on the impact of sanctions and on possible further measures. However, there were also offsetting factors, such as compensatory fiscal measures and the possibility for households to draw on savings accumulated during the pandemic. Moreover, the reopening of the sectors most affected by the pandemic and a strong labour market would continue to support incomes and spending. Furthermore, over time, the euro area would find alternative energy suppliers and adapt production technologies to become less dependent on fossil fuels. Overall, the war in Ukraine had substantially increased the risks to the growth outlook, which were clearly skewed to the downside. While risks relating to the pandemic had declined, the war might have an even stronger effect on economic sentiment and could further worsen supply-side constraints. Persistently high energy costs, together with a loss of confidence, could drag down demand and restrain consumption and investment more than expected. Inflation had increased to 7.5% in March, from an already revised 5.9% in February. Energy prices, which had been driven higher after the outbreak of the war and stood 45% above their level one year before, continued to be the main reason for the high rate of inflation. Market-based indicators suggested that energy prices would stay high in the near term but would moderate thereafter. Food prices had also increased sharply owing to elevated transportation and production costs, notably the higher price of fertilisers, which was also related to the war in Ukraine. Core inflation, as measured by the HICP excluding energy and food, had risen from 2.7% in February to 3.0% in March, with an increase in the sectoral inflation rate for both the non-energy industrial goods sector and the services sector. Overall, there was broad consensus that stubbornly high, and higher than expected, inflation increased the risk of second-round effects arising through wage costs. However, views differed on the extent to which such risks were likely to materialise. It was noted that various indicators of longer-term inflation expectations had been creeping up, with an increased risk of inflation expectations becoming unanchored from the target. At the same time, it was also argued that developments in market-based indicators of longer-term inflation expectations could still generally be interpreted as positive, suggesting it was more likely than a few months earlier that the Governing Council's 2% inflation target would be met on a sustained basis. Against this background some members viewed it as important to act without undue delay in order to demonstrate the Governing Council's determination to achieve price stability in the medium term. These members judged that the highly accommodative monetary policy stance, which had been appropriate when inflation expectations risked becoming unanchored to the downside, was no longer consistent with the inflation outlook, which was characterised by high inflation levels and increasing inflation expectations. It was highlighted that the ongoing normalisation was visible in market interest rates and could be expected to weigh on the economy in the coming quarters. Overall, the view prevailed that, in the light of the heightened uncertainty resulting from the still ongoing effects of the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, optionality, gradualism, and flexibility remained important features of the Governing Council's monetary policy conduct. Even relatively small steps might be sufficient to turn the current accommodative monetary policy stance into a restrictive stance. Model-based estimates suggested that the natural real interest rate was still negative, although it had to be acknowledged that uncertainty surrounding the estimated values was high. Moreover, there was a gap between estimates for the US and euro area natural real interest rates, which might be explained partly by differences in productivity, labour supply and demographics as well as the level of excess liquidity. Notwithstanding the low level of the natural rate, it was recalled that the expected path of the nominal key ECB interest rates would approach a neutral level only at a very late stage of the policy normalisation process. In particular, it was seen as advisable to maintain optionality and defer a decision regarding the precise timing of the end of net asset purchases until the Governing Council's June meeting, which would allow the Governing Council to benefit from additional data and the new Eurosystem staff projections. As uncertainty was exceptionally high, different scenarios for future developments in the inflation outlook could be envisaged. It was also highlighted that Mr Lane's proposal left all options open for decisions to be taken at the June meeting. In particular, the proposal was seen as consistent with the possibility of deciding to end net asset purchases already at the end of the second quarter or early in the third quarter. All in all, members agreed that the monetary policy proposal by Mr Lane in his introduction was in line with keeping all optionality, in the light of the current high uncertainty, and would allow the Governing Council to reassess the inflation outlook on the basis of the incoming information at its June meeting. This approach implied, on the one hand, that the Governing Council remained on its course of a gradual normalisation of monetary policy, consistent with its forward guidance that interest rates would be raised some time after the end of net asset purchases. On the other hand, considering that "some time" had been defined as a period between one week and several months at the March press conference, the approach did not prevent a timely rate rise if conditions so warranted. As regards the forward guidance on interest rates, the view was expressed that the criteria for interest rate hikes were already clearly met. In this context, it was stressed that the Governing Council should pay the same attention to longer-term inflation expectations moving above target as it had when inflation expectations had fallen below target in the past, in line with the Governing Council's commitment to "symmetry". Otherwise there was a risk of "falling behind the curve". Overall, however, it was judged that the forward guidance conditions for an upward adjustment of the key ECB interest rates would become crucial for the policy discussion at the Governing Council's June meeting. This pertained both to the two criteria applicable to the projected path of inflation and to the third condition, i.e. that the realised progress in underlying inflation be sufficiently advanced to be consistent with inflation stabilising at 2% over the medium term. Although spreads between sovereign bond yields and risk-free rates had remained broadly stable since the last Governing Council meeting, it was deemed important to address a possible resurgence of fragmentation in euro area financial conditions, if necessary, in order to ensure a continuous transmission of monetary policy throughout the euro area. Reference was made to the "separation principle", i.e. the idea that the appropriate monetary policy stance could be set independently of the deployment of instruments designed to avoid a sudden disruption of financial markets that could be triggered by a tightening of the stance. The argument was made that flexibility should be a permanent feature of the Governing Council's toolbox, and all of the ECB's instruments could be adjusted within the mandate, incorporating flexibility if warranted, to ensure that inflation stabilised at the Governing Council's 2% target over the medium term. In addition, it was recalled that the reinvestment of assets purchased under the PEPP could be used to address possible episodes of financial market tensions related to the pandemic, if needed. Regarding communication, members broadly agreed that the policy guidance that had been provided in March should be confirmed and the consistency of future action with that guidance should be emphasised, while asserting that the Governing Council would continue to act according to the established principles of flexibility, optionality and gradualism. Although communication had to acknowledge the increase in inflation and its detrimental effects on households' cost of living, as well as real wealth and disposable income, the view was expressed that the Governing Council needed to be careful to not create the impression that monetary policy was able to address high energy inflation, which was driving a significant part of current inflation figures. Instead, the ECB's communication had to underline the need for monetary policy to address the persistence of inflation that could result from second-round effects, and avoid creating the perception of inaction in the presence of high inflation figures. Finally, the Governing Council had to emphasise that it was willing to take whatever action was needed to fulfil the ECB's mandate to pursue price stability and to bring inflation back to 2% over the medium term. Taking into account the foregoing discussion among the members, upon a proposal by the President, the Governing Council took the monetary policy decisions as set out in the ECB's press release. The members of the Governing Council subsequently finalised the monetary policy statement, which the President and the Vice-President would, as usual, deliver at the press conference following the Governing Council meeting.