Today we reduced the target range for our policy interest rate by 1 percentage point, bringing it close to zero, and said that we expect to maintain the rate at this level until we're confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. To prevent this from happening and to support the smooth functioning of the Treasury market, we announced today that we will purchase at least $500 billion of Treasury securities over the coming months. we will also purchase at least $200 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities over coming months and immediately cease the runoff of these securities in our portfolio. First, we reduced the interest rate on discount window loans by 1½ percentage points, bringing that rate to ¼ percent. we made a coordinated announcement with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank to reduce the pricing on our dollar swap lines. The actions we have announced today will help American families and businesses and, indeed, our entire economy weather this difficult period and will foster a more vigorous return to normal once the disruptions from the coronavirus abate. We are prepared to use our full range of tools to support the flow of credit to households and business, to help keep the economy strong, and to promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. we do not see negative policy rates as likely to be an appropriate policy response here in the United States. we believe that what we did today will be beneficial to financial markets generally. we do think fiscal response is critical, and we're happy to see that those measures are being considered, and we hope they are effective. the purpose of the asset purchases was, and I mentioned this in my statement. And it really is to support the availability of credit in the economy-households and businesses we will maintain the rate at this level until we're confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. we're going to buy at a strong rate that is-that we think will restore market function-restore liquidity as quickly as it can be restored. we have not at all made a decision to request further-further tools or authorities from Congress, no. we think we have plenty of policy space left, plenty of power left in our tools, and I would point in particular to the liquidity tools. I think there's more risk to financial stability in an era like-like that than there is when things are really placid we're strongly focused on financial stability. We monitor it carefully. we decided to offer very large quantities of term and overnight repo to address that. we brought together the full FOMC and had our meeting this afternoon and announced these measures this evening, which are strong measures, with the broad support of the Committee to provide really substantial amounts of liquidity. we'd like them to use their buffers to provide- you know, to provide loans and-and also to work with their borrowers. we're prepared to use our authorities as is appropriate to- you know, to support borrowing and lending in the economy, and, hence, to support the availability of credit to households and businesses.