Today my colleagues on the FOMC and I reaffirmed our strong forward guidance for interest rates and also provided additional guidance for our asset purchases. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. We will continue to increase our holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage-backed securities by at least $40 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. We believe the increase in our balance sheet this year has materially eased financial conditions and is providing substantial support to the economy. We will continue to use our tools to support the economy for as long as it takes until the job is well and truly done. The economic downturn is the most severe of our lifetimes. We will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. en We will be looking for employment to be substantially closer to assessments of its maximum level and inflation to be substantially closer to our 2 percent longer-run goal before we start making adjustments to our purchases. We think that the asset purchase guidance is very important. We will put these emergency tools back in the box when the time comes, after the crisis has passed. We are committed to using our full range of tools to support the economy and to help assure that the recovery from this difficult period will be as robust as possible. So on your-on your first question, we really have not thought about that. We will use them if, if they're needed and if-and if the law permits us to do so. The case for fiscal policy right now is, is very, very strong. I think it would be-I, I certainly would welcome the work that Congress is doing right now. We have, and others too, have consistently expected there to be more economic-that, that cases would hold-growth in cases would hold back the economy more than it actually has. The first quarter will, will certainly show significant effects from this. I think many people have the expectation that the second half of next year should-the economy should be performing strongly. We can expand our asset purchase programs. We know there's need out there. We should be growing at a fairly healthy clip by the second half of next year. We will watch that carefully. We're going to move carefully and thoughtfully on developing an understanding of how climate change affects our work. Climate change is an emerging risk to financial institutions, the financial system, and the economy. We have historically shied away strongly from taking a role in credit allocation. We'll expect that, that those important institutions will be resilient against the many risks that they face. We've been attending NGFS meetings as an observer for more than a year, taking part in the work. I would say that the picture is mixed. The decision whether to provide more fiscal support to them is entirely in the hands of Congress. We're monitoring it carefully, and it's a mixed picture. We think that the big effects from monetary policy are, you know, months and months into the future. We remain open to doing-you know, to either increasing the size of our asset purchases, if that turns out to be appropriate, or to just moving the maturities. We expect that, that with the virus, that will improve-that condition will improve. We think our asset purchases are, you know, one of the main delivery mechanisms for that. We would watch it very carefully. I think the main thing that those companies need is a-is a robust recovery-a strong, robust recovery. We think that our guidance on asset purchases today will also provide support to the economy over time. I would certainly think that would be something well worth looking at. We're monitoring these prices for that and, and have published our, our framework. The ultimate thing to support financial stability is a strong economy. So people who run for elected office and win, they're the ones-their reward is they get to make those very difficult decisions. But I would just say, as a general rule, it is important to be on a sustainable fiscal path. For my way of thinking and many others', the time to focus on that is when the economy is strong and when unemployment is low and taxes are pouring in, and there's room to get on a sustainable path, because the economy's really doing well. In terms of what is a sustainable level, I think, you know, it's-the question is-we've always looked at debt to GDP, and we're very high by that measure. By some other measures, we're actually not that high. In particular, you can look at the real interest rate payments, the amount of, what does it cost? And from that standpoint, if you take real interest costs of the federal deficit and divide that by GDP, we're actually on a more sustainable fiscal path if you look at it through those eyes. Again, these are issues for Congress. But, you know, I'll just say in the near term, I think fiscal-the case for fiscal is strong. And I'm certainly hoping-I think it will be very good for the economy if we did get something soon. Yeah, I mean, that's-I think we're a very, very long way from that. You know, the Congress has given the Fed independence on the condition that we stick to our knitting. We try very hard to do that. And I think that's what people call fiscal dominance. And I think we're just a very, very long way from that. I think, you know, if we do our jobs well and support the economy and achieve maximum employment and stable prices, keep the financial system stable, I don't think that that is something that will-that I would worry about, certainly not in the near term.