today the Federal Open Market Committee raised its policy interest rate by ¾ percentage point the Committee reiterated that it anticipates that ongoing increases in the target range will be appropriate we are continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate is 3.4 percent at the end of this year we will be looking for compelling evidence that inflation is moving down we anticipate that ongoing rate increases will be appropriate the Committee decided that a larger increase in the target range was warranted at today's meeting we are highly attentive to inflation risks and determined to take the measures necessary to restore price stability we understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country One of the factors in our deciding to move ahead with 75 basis points today was what we saw in inflation expectations. We're going to react to the incoming data and appropriately, I think. We want to see progress. We're resolved to take this on, but we're going to be flexible in the implementation of it. We're not looking to have a higher unemployment rate. We have to restore that, and it really is in service, in the medium and longer term, of the kind of labor market we want and hope to achieve. We're trying to achieve 2 percent inflation consistent with a strong labor market. We're going to be careful about declaring victory. The sentence isn't-it kind of says on its face that monetary policy alone can do this. We're seeing them here: gas prices at all-time highs, and things like that. We're responsible for inflation in the law. So it's a time when we're not seeing progress and we want to see progress, and that's really another part of why we did what we did today and why the SEP looks like it does. If you see-you're looking at getting back down to almost a 2 percent inflation by 2024, and the unemployment rate is still as low as 4.1 percent. So we're aware that a different set of forces are driving the economy-we have been, obviously, for quite a while. We've done a lot of work internally on, and thinking about, what all that means. We're phasing in-Treasury [security] issuance is down quite a lot, quite a lot from where it's been, so I have no reason to think-markets are forward looking, and they see this coming. So, clearly, people don't like inflation-a lot. We want to get the job done. We're watching it to see what will happen. So this will be a process whereby we-ideally, we do our work in a way that the housing market settles in a new place and housing availability and credit availability are at appropriate levels.