Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings, though at a slower pace. The Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings, though at a slower pace. We've stated that we do not expect that it will be appropriate to reduce the target range for the federal funds rate until we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. We are prepared to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for as long as appropriate. The decision to slow the pace of runoff does not mean that our balance sheet will ultimately shrink by less than it would otherwise but rather allows us to approach its ultimate level more gradually. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. we need to be more confident, and we've said-my colleagues and I today said that we didn't see progress in the first-in the first quarter. when we get that confidence, then rate cuts will be in scope. I think my expectation is that we will, over the course of this year, see inflation move back down. we will put the thing under a microscope. we didn't gain confidence and that it's going to take longer to get that confidence. we've said that we didn't think it would be appropriate to cut until we were more confident that inflation was moving sustainably down to 2 percent. we are focusing on it. I don't have a probability estimate for you. we will return inflation to 2 percent over time but over time. we think our policy stance is, is appropriate to do that. we will succeed. we're using our tools to bring down inflation. It will take some time, but we will succeed. we will bring inflation back down to 2 percent restrictive monetary policy is doing what it's supposed to do we're not looking at the very high inflation rates that we were seeing two years ago. I think we thought, and most people thought, there would have to be probably significant dislocations somewhere in the economy, perhaps the labor market, to get inflation all the way down from the very high levels it was at at the beginning of this episode. we're trying to use our tools in a way that keeps the labor market strong, and the economy strong, but also helps bring inflation back down to 2 percent sustainably. we will bring inflation down to 2 percent sustainably. if there were weakness in the job market, that could be a reason to cut rates. it would have to be meaningful and get our attention and lead us to think that the labor market was really significantly weakening for us to want to react to it. we haven't made any decisions on, on policy or on process at all. if we conclude that re-proposal is appropriate, we won't hesitate to insist on that. we do not lack for a diversity of voices and perspectives.