Today, the FOMC raised our policy interest rate by ½ percentage point. We continue to anticipate that ongoing increases will be appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. At today's meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ½ percentage point, bringing the target range to 4¼ to 4½ percent. With today's action, we have raised interest rates by 4¼ percentage points this year. We continue to anticipate that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. In light of the cumulative tightening of monetary policy and the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, the Committee decided to raise interest rates by 50 basis points today, a step-down from the 75 basis point pace seen over the previous four meetings. The median projection in the SEP for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate is 5.1 percent at the end of next year, ½ percentage point higher than projected in September. Our decisions will depend on the totality of incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. We are taking forceful steps to moderate demand so that it comes into better alignment with supply. Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. We will stay the course until the job is done. The decision to step down the pace of rate increase-rate rises appears to have been socialized at your last meeting, largely before the past two CPI reports showed inflation decelerating in line with the Committee's forecasts this year. So I haven't made a judgment on what size rate hike to make at the last meeting. But, you know, what you said is broadly right, which is, having moved so quickly and having now so much restraint that's still in the pipeline, we think that the appropriate thing to do now is to move to a slower pace. It's not about the strength of the labor market. And that's why unemployment goes up, because we're having to tighten policy more. We're going into next year with higher inflation than we had thought, right? I wouldn't see us considering rate cuts until the Committee is confident that inflation is moving down to 2 percent in a sustained way. We think that we'll have to maintain a restrictive stance of policy for some time. The worst pain would be if we failed to act. We have a 2 percent inflation goal, and we'll use our tools to get inflation back to 2 percent. That seems like something that would be really good for the economy and for the country, if we could get back to that. We're going to keep our inflation target at 2 percent. We have to use our tools to support maximum employment and price stability. We need to really focus on getting inflation under control, and that's what we'll do. We're not considering that under any circumstances. We absolutely do. We don't see participation moving up-which is contrary to what we thought. We're not-of course, we don't talk about, you know, this kind of a recession and that kind of a recession. We make our forecasts, and we publish them quarterly. We wouldn't-I wouldn't see the Committee cutting rates until we're confident that inflation is moving down in a sustained way.