At today's meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing the target range to 4¾ to 5 percent. We will closely monitor incoming data and carefully assess the actual and expected effects of tighter credit conditions on economic activity, the labor market, and inflation, and our policy decisions will reflect that assessment. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 3.3 percent for this year, 2.5 percent next year, and 2.1 percent in 2025. We will continue to make our meeting-decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. We took powerful actions with [the] Treasury and the FDIC, which demonstrate that all depositors' savings are safe and that the banking system is safe. The issue was really not about those specific banks, but about the risk of a contagion to, to other banks and to the financial markets more broadly. We are committed to learning the lessons from this episode and to work to prevent episodes-events like this from happening again. So for our part, we're doing a review of supervision and regulation. It is clear-really to your last question-it's clear that we do need to strengthen supervision and regulation. We will find that. We have responsibility for price stability. And nothing's going to change that. We will get inflation down to 2 percent in time. We're looking at what's happening among the banks and asking, is there going to be some tightening in credit conditions? We'll be watching all those things, and of course we will-we will eventually get to [a] tight enough policy to bring inflation down to 2 percent. We don't assume that. We're well aware of the concentrations people have in commercial real estate. The banking system is, is strong, it is sound, it is resilient, it's well capitalized. We have the tools to protect depositors when there's a threat of serious harm to the economy or to-or to the financial system, and we're prepared to use those tools. We will find ourselves at that place. We're going to have to watch. We're looking to avoid. So coming into the middle of this week, yes, I would say that that is going well so far. we have to bring inflation down to 2 percent. the costs of bringing it down-there are real costs to bringing it down to 2 percent, but the costs of failing are much higher. if the central bank doesn't get inflation back in place, get inflation-make sure that inflation expectations remain anchored, you can have a long series of years where inflation is high and volatile. we're very focused on getting inflation down because we know in the longer run that that is the thing that will most benefit the people we serve. I think that pathway still exists and, you know, we're certainly trying to find it. What can we do to make sure that-but, again, that's not for me to answer. I want nothing other than us to find out what happened and why, figure out what we can do to do better, and then implement those changes. we're always willing to change that if we conclude that it's appropriate, but we're really not seeing any signs there. So financial conditions seem to have tightened-and probably by more than the traditional indexes say. the question for us, though, is, how significant will that be and how, you know-what will be the extent of it and what will be the duration of it? if it is, you know, it could easily have a significant macroeconomic effect, and we would factor that into our policy decisions. rate cuts are not in our base case.