Today we took another step by raising our policy interest rate ¼ percentage point. At today's meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing the target range to 5¼ to 5½ percent. We will continue to take a data-dependent approach in determining the extent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate. We remain committed to bringing inflation back to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Reducing inflation is likely to require a period of below-trend growth and some softening of labor market conditions. We're going to be going meeting by meeting, and as we go into each meeting, we're going to be asking ourselves the same questions. It's good to see that, of course. We'll be looking at the growth data. We need to see that inflation is durably down that far. It is a good thing that headline inflation has come down so much. We think we need to stay on task, and we think we're going to need to hold, certainly, hold policy at a restrictive level for some time. The worst outcome for everyone, of course, would be not to deal with inflation now, not get it done. So it is-it is a very positive thing that, actually, the unemployment rate is the same as it was when we lifted off in March of '22, at 3.6 percent. we have to be honest that that is-that is the likely outcome. the worst outcome for everyone, of course, would be not to deal with inflation now, not get it done. we want to see economic growth running at moderate or modest levels to help ease inflationary pressures. we intend, again, to keep policy restrictive until we're confident that inflation is coming down sustainably to our 2 percent target, and we're prepared to further tighten if that is appropriate. we think the process, you know, still probably has a, a long way to go. we're going to make a decision about the next meeting, and then we're going to make a decision about the one after that. we're determined to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time, and we will use our tools to do that. monetary policy is restrictive, more so after today's decision, meaning that it is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation. we think it'll play an important role going forward, in particular in nonhousing services. we've seen so far the beginnings of disinflation without any real costs in the labor market. the staff now has a noticeable slowdown in growth starting later this year in the forecast, but given the resilience of the economy recently, they are no longer forecasting a recession. So the staff now has a noticeable slowdown in growth starting later this year in the forecast, but given the resilience of the economy recently, they are no longer forecasting a recession. We've seen so far the beginnings of disinflation without any real costs in the labor market. We expect to see more of that. So if we see inflation coming down credibly, sustainably, then we don't need to be at a restrictive level anymore. We can move back to a neutral level and then below a neutral level at a certain point. The SLOOS has been telling us for more than a year that banking conditions are tightening. That process is ongoing, and that will restrain economic growth. We think the single most important thing we can do to benefit those very families, especially families at the lower end of the income spectrum, is to get inflation sustainably under control and restore price stability. We are watching it, of course, very closely. The withdrawal from the Black Sea Grain Initiative does raise concerns about global food security, particularly for poorer countries that import a large share of their food.