Today my colleagues on the FOMC and I kept interest rates near zero and maintained our sizable asset purchases. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. We will continue to increase our holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage-backed securities by at least $40 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. We've articulated particular guidance for tapering our asset purchases and for lifting off and raising interest rates. We will weigh various factors, including the time it would take to get back and so forth. We do monitor the housing market very carefully, of course. We don't see bad loans and unsustainable prices and that kind of thing. We want to get them back to work as quickly as possible, and that's really one of the things we're trying to achieve with our policy. We are navigating through an unprecedented series of events, where a synchronized global shutdown is transitioning to widespread reopening of economies in many regions worldwide. We are very strongly committed to achieving our objectives of maximum employment and price stability. We believe that having inflation average 2 percent over time will help anchor long-term inflation expectations at 2 percent. If, contrary to expectations, inflation were to persistently and materially exceed 2 percent in a way that threatened to elevate long-term inflation expectations significantly above 2 percent, we would utilize our tools to reduce inflation and expectations to levels consistent with our mandate. We consider bottlenecks to be temporary issues that will be resolved as workers and businesses adapt, and we believe they do not necessitate a change in monetary policy since they are expected to resolve themselves. We understand our responsibilities. We will fulfill our duties. We are the world's reserve currency, which means that the dollar is utilized in transactions globally, far more than any other currency. I am less worried that another country might introduce a digital currency before us. It is a complex set of questions that we must address in a world where we already have a highly developed payment system. We believe it is fair to state that the increases we are observing, and are expected to see later this week, are primarily attributed to base effects. We want inflation to run a little bit higher than it has been running for the last quarter of a century. We expect core and headline PCE to move up because of base effects. We will continue asset purchases at this pace until we see substantial further progress. We expect that to go away. We're looking at ways to make those vehicles resilient so that they don't have to be supported by the government whenever there's severely stressed market conditions. The overall financial stability picture is mixed, but, on balance, it's manageable. We will taper asset purchases when the time comes to do that, and those purchases will come to zero over time. We're not an adviser to Congress. We do expect further downward pressure on rates through asset purchases. We will do so if the need does arise. And so, when that time-when the time comes for us to talk about talking about it, we'll do that. we're going to act on actual data, not on our forecast. we articulated the-you know, the tests for withdrawing that accommodation. we'll go ahead. As we-you know, we've done this before. the only thing that will guide us is, are the tests met?