By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. As part of the annual review of the Committee's governance documents for open market operations and foreign currency transactions, the Committee unanimously approved a new governance document titled "FOMC Authorizations and Continuing Directives for Open Market Operations." The new document includes (1) authorizations previously in the Committee's Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations; (2) a new "Continuing Directive for Domestic Open Market Operations," which combines direction to the Desk in the Standing Repurchase Agreement Facility and FIMA Repurchase Agreement Facility resolutions with direction to the Desk to continue to carry out other ongoing activities; (3) the Foreign Currency Directive; and (4) two other existing documents related to contingency arrangements. The new unified document improves clarity and transparency in the governance of Desk activities but does not make substantive changes to governance. The domestic policy directive released after each FOMC meeting will have modest conforming changes going forward. As part of the Committee's annual organizational review process, all participants indicated support for the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, and the Committee voted unanimously to reaffirm it without revision. Market participants generally expected U.S. economic growth to moderate this year, although there was a wide dispersion in views about the extent of a potential slowdown. Market participants interpreted incoming data as pointing to moderating inflation risks. Against this backdrop, market participants judged that the FOMC would likely slow the pace of rate increases further at the current meeting, and respondents to the Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants widely expected the Committee to implement a 1/4 percentage point increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. Survey respondents assessed that uncertainty around the likely peak level of the policy rate narrowed relative to the comparable results from the December surveys and, on average, placed significant probability on a target federal funds rate range close to 5 percent. A significant share of survey respondents anticipated that the Committee would hold the policy rate stable for much of 2023. Moderating inflation in the United States and improving global growth prospects lifted market sentiment. While most Desk survey respondents expected subdued growth or a mild recession in 2023, market participants continued to see notable uncertainties ahead, including prospects for a deeper downturn or the potential for more persistent inflation. Regarding the international outlook, signs of a faster reopening in China and a less severe downturn in Europe eased concerns about global growth, contributing to a depreciation in the exchange value of the dollar and supporting optimism about emerging market economies. Narrowing interest rate differentials between the United States and other advanced foreign economies also contributed to dollar depreciation, as some foreign central bank communications suggested a need for further monetary policy tightening to address inflation pressures. In addition, the Bank of Japan unexpectedly widened its yield curve control band at its December meeting to address market functioning issues in the market for Japanese government bonds. Over the period, some other central banks communicated that they were at or near a point where it would be appropriate to pause policy rate increases and assess the effects of cumulative policy tightening. The manager pro tem turned next to a discussion of money markets and Federal Reserve operations. Money market rates were stable over the period, with the year-end passing smoothly. As expected, balances in the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility increased at year-end but quickly retraced. Market participants generally expected usage of the ON RRP facility to continue a downward trend in 2023, moderating the decline in reserve balances as the Federal Reserve's holdings of securities continue to run off. Should transitory pressures occur in money markets over the course of the year, the manager pro tem noted that the standing repurchase agreement (repo) facility and discount window would be available to help support effective monetary policy implementation. The manager noted that, over coming months, developments affecting the Treasury General Account (TGA) and Treasury financing could influence money market conditions. An increase in TGA balances associated with April individual tax receipts could result in a temporary decline in reserve balances. In subsequent months, uncertainties associated with the debt limit could also be important. In particular, the Treasury could increase bill issuance to rebuild TGA balances once the debt limit is lifted, reducing reserves and potentially lifting money market rates. The manager pro tem noted that in recent months, investors in the ON RRP facility had responded to small increases in money market rates by shifting balances into private investments, and that reductions in ON RRP volumes may help smooth adjustments in money markets. Over the intermeeting period, the market-implied federal funds rate path was little changed for 2023 but moderately moved down further out. Nominal Treasury yields were little changed, while swaps-based inflation compensation measures fell notably. Stock market indexes were slightly higher, and market volatility declined but remained slightly elevated. Businesses and households continued to face elevated borrowing costs. Credit quality remained strong overall, although there were some signs of deterioration for consumer loans. The market-implied federal funds rate path for 2023 was little changed, on net, during the intermeeting period but fell moderately beyond mid-2024. On net, nominal Treasury yields were roughly unchanged, and swaps-market-implied inflation compensation measures fell notably. Broad stock price indexes ended the intermeeting period only slightly higher despite sizable fluctuations. Equity prices fell sharply following the December FOMC statement but recovered over the remainder of the period in response to data releases. The VIX-the one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500-decreased somewhat but remained slightly above the median range of its historical distribution. Spreads on investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds narrowed somewhat, on net, over the intermeeting period, while spreads on municipal bonds narrowed substantially. Conditions in short-term funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period, with the December increase in the target range for the federal funds rate and the associated increases in the Federal Reserve's administered rates passing through quickly to overnight money market rates. In secured markets, repo rates were roughly the same as the ON RRP offering rate but continued to occasionally print slightly higher around days with Treasury bill and coupon settlements. Daily take-up in the ON RRP facility remained elevated, reflecting continued elevated assets under management (AUM) for money market mutual funds (MMFs), ongoing uncertainty around the policy path, and limited supply of alternative investments such as Treasury bills. Net yields on MMFs rose further over the intermeeting period, mostly passing through the increase in administered rates. Bank deposit rates gradually increased but continued to lag cumulative increases in the federal funds rate. Over the intermeeting period, investor perceptions of an improved economic outlook in China and Europe contributed to increases in foreign risky asset prices and weighed on the exchange value of the dollar. Global equity indexes rose, supported in part by lower European natural gas prices and China's decision to abandon its zero-COVID policy. Sovereign yields increased notably in the euro area and Japan, reflecting more-restrictive-than-expected communications from the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan's decision to widen its yield curve control target band, respectively. In contrast, yields in other major advanced foreign economies were little changed on net. The staff's broad dollar index declined over the intermeeting period, with larger declines against emerging market economy (EME) currencies amid significant inflows into EME-focused investment funds in January on improved investor sentiment. Narrowing yield differentials between the United States and some advanced foreign economies also contributed to the depreciation of the dollar. In domestic credit markets, businesses and households continued to face elevated borrowing costs. Yields for corporate bonds declined, while borrowing costs for leveraged loans were little changed at elevated levels. Bank interest rates for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans continued to trend upward in the fourth quarter. Yields on municipal bonds declined during the intermeeting period but remained above their historical average. Residential mortgage rates were little changed over the intermeeting period and remained well above their levels in the previous tightening cycle, notwithstanding the decline from their peak in early November. Interest rates on existing credit cards continued to increase in recent months, and interest rates on new auto loans also rose through mid-January. Credit remained broadly available for businesses and households with strong credit quality but remained tight for lower-rated borrowers. Lending standards tightened further for bank-dependent borrowers. Issuance of corporate bonds was subdued in December before picking up somewhat in January. New launches of leveraged loans were notably subdued in December and January, likely reflecting soft investor demand and higher reference rates on floating-rate loans. In the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported having tightened C&I and commercial real estate (CRE) lending standards over the previous three months. Although C&I loans at banks continued to expand through December, they decelerated relative to earlier in the year, in line with tighter lending standards and weaker demand for C&I loans over the fourth quarter. CRE loan growth on domestic banks' balance sheets remained robust in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile, issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained slow in November and December, amid high base interest rates and spreads. Some tightening in lending conditions was also evident for small businesses, with the share of small firms reporting that it was more difficult to obtain credit compared with three months earlier continuing to trend up through December. Credit was broadly available in the residential mortgage market for high-credit-score borrowers who met standard conforming loan criteria. Credit availability for households with lower credit scores was considerably tighter, though comparable to levels prevailing before the pandemic. Purchase mortgage applications and refinance applications were both little changed over the intermeeting period. Home equity line of credit (HELOC) balances at banks continued to grow through the fourth quarter, on net, potentially reflecting homeowners using HELOCs as a preferred way of extracting home equity in the presence of high current mortgage rates. In the January SLOOS, banks reported tighter standards for all consumer loans. Even so, total credit card balances increased at a solid pace in November, while auto loans grew modestly. Overall, credit quality remained strong, although there was some deterioration for credit card and auto loan borrowers and some predictors of future credit quality worsened a bit further. The volume of corporate bond rating downgrades outpaced upgrades in December, although the level of downgrades remained moderate. Leveraged loans experienced notable net rating downgrades in December, but the pace moderated in January. Default rates on corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained low. Measures of expected default probabilities for corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained elevated relative to their historical distributions. The credit quality of businesses that borrow from banks remained sound, on balance, although, in the January SLOOS, banks reported expecting a deterioration in the quality of business loans in their portfolio over 2023. Delinquencies on small business loans continued to edge up in November but remained low relative to historical levels. The credit quality of households also remained strong, on balance, despite some signs of deterioration. Delinquencies for Federal Housing Administration mortgages increased slightly, but overall mortgage delinquency rates were still near pre-pandemic lows. Delinquency rates for credit cards and auto loans continued to rise during the third quarter. While delinquency rates on credit cards were still relatively low, those on auto loans rose above pre-pandemic levels. In the January SLOOS, banks reported expecting a further deterioration in the quality of household loans in 2023, especially for consumer loans. The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the financial system and, on balance, characterized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as moderate. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures remained notable. In particular, the staff noted that measures of valuations in both residential and commercial property markets remained high, and that the potential for large declines in property prices remained greater than usual. In addition, the forward price-to-earnings ratio for S&P 500 firms remained above its median value despite the decline in equity prices over the past year. The staff assessed that valuation pressures had eased for corporate bonds and leveraged loans, as spreads in both markets had increased from recent lows. The staff assessed that vulnerabilities associated with household and business leverage remained moderate, noting that although measures of business leverage were at or near a historically high level, the ability of firms to service their debt has kept pace with rising debt loads and interest rates. Household borrowing rose for borrowers with prime credit scores but declined for households with lower credit scores. Vulnerabilities associated with financial leverage also remained moderate. In particular, risk-based capital ratios for banks increased slightly, a staff measure of leverage at life insurance companies remained relatively flat in recent quarters, and leverage among private credit funds has remained steady for several years. While measures of hedge fund leverage have decreased since the pandemic shock, the staff noted that leverage among the largest funds was on track to return to 2019 levels. Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. The rising rate environment has prompted inflows into prime retail MMFs, while AUM at prime institutional funds, which have proved more sensitive to turmoil in the past, have grown much less. Assets in open-end mutual funds that invest in less liquid instruments like bank loans or high-yield corporate bonds have declined notably over the past year. In response to vulnerabilities at MMFs and open-end mutual funds, the Securities and Exchange Commission has proposed rules to make these funds more resilient. The forecast for the U.S. economy prepared by the staff for this FOMC meeting had a somewhat higher path for the level of real GDP and a modestly lower path for the unemployment rate than in the December projection, reflecting both the recent data and a small additional boost to output from a lower projected path for the dollar. Although recent data indicated that real GDP growth in the fourth quarter of 2022 was stronger than expected, real PDFP growth was weaker than previously forecast, and the large, unexpected boost to GDP growth from inventory investment was not projected to persist. In part reflecting the lagged effects of previous monetary policy tightening, the staff still projected real GDP growth to slow markedly this year and the labor market to soften. The staff forecast continued to include a pickup in real GDP growth starting next year, although projected output growth in 2024 and 2025 remains below the staff's estimate of potential output growth. The level of real output was expected to move down to the staff's estimate of potential near the end of 2025. Likewise, the unemployment rate was projected to gradually move up to the staff's estimate of its natural rate at the end of 2025. On a four-quarter change basis, total PCE price inflation was forecast to be 2.8 percent in 2023, and core inflation was expected to be 3.2 percent, both lower than in the December projection. With the effects of supply-demand imbalances in goods markets expected to further unwind and labor and product markets projected to become less tight, the staff continued to forecast that inflation would decline further over 2024 and 2025. On a four-quarter change basis, core goods inflation was projected to move down further this year and then remain subdued, housing services inflation was expected to peak later this year and then move down, and core nonhousing services inflation was forecast to slow as nominal wage growth eased. With steep declines in consumer energy prices and a substantial moderation in food price inflation expected for this year, total inflation was projected to step down markedly this year and then to track core inflation over the following two years. In 2025, both total and core PCE price inflation were expected to be near 2 percent. The sluggish growth in real private domestic spending expected this year and the persistently tight financial conditions were seen as tilting the risks to the downside around the baseline projection for real economic activity, and the staff still viewed the possibility of a recession sometime this year as a plausible alternative to the baseline. Moreover, with core PCE price inflation having slowed in recent months, along with the cumulative upward revisions to the core inflation projection over the past year and the expected softening in economic growth, the staff now viewed the risks around the baseline forecast for inflation this year as balanced. For beyond this year, the staff continued to view the risks around the inflation projection as skewed to the upside, reflecting concerns about the potential persistence of inflation. In their discussion of current economic conditions, participants noted that recent indicators pointed to modest growth in spending and production. Nonetheless, job gains had been robust in recent months, and the unemployment rate remained low. Inflation had eased somewhat but remained elevated. Participants recognized that Russia's war against Ukraine was causing tremendous human and economic hardship and was contributing to elevated global uncertainty. Against this background, participants continued to be highly attentive to inflation risks. Participants agreed that cumulative policy firming to date had reduced demand in the most interest-rate-sensitive sectors of the economy, particularly housing. Participants observed that growth in economic activity in 2022 had been below its longer-run trend and expected that real GDP growth would slow further in 2023. While real GDP growth had rebounded in the second half of 2022, several participants noted that growth in PDFP had nearly stalled in the fourth quarter. With inflation remaining unacceptably high, participants expected that a period of below-trend growth in real GDP would be needed to bring aggregate demand into better balance with aggregate supply and thereby reduce inflationary pressures. Some participants judged that recent economic data signaled a somewhat higher chance of continued subdued economic growth, with inflation falling over time to the Committee's longer-run goal of 2 percent, although some participants noted that the probability of the economy entering a recession in 2023 remained elevated. Members agreed to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent. Members anticipated that ongoing increases in the target range would be appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. Members concurred that they remained highly attentive to inflation risks. Members agreed that the Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. Members concurred that, in determining the extent of future increases in the target range, they would take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments. Members agreed that their assessments will take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. Members agreed that the runoff of the balance sheet had been proceeding smoothly. Members also concurred that job gains had been robust in recent months, and the unemployment rate had remained low. Members noted that inflation data received over the past three months showed a welcome reduction in the monthly pace of price increases but stressed that substantially more evidence of progress across a broader range of prices would be required to be confident that inflation was on a sustained downward path. Members agreed that the risks to the outlook for economic activity were weighted to the downside.