today, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to take another step in reducing the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. At today's meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, to 4¼-4½ percent. We've been moving policy toward a more neutral setting in order to maintain the strength of the economy and the labor market while establishing further progress in-sorry, enabling further progress on-inflation. We know that reducing policy restraint too fast or too much could hinder progress on inflation. If the economy remains strong and inflation does not continue to move sustainably toward 2 percent, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can ease policy more quickly. We're not on any preset course. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.9 percent at the end of next year and 3.4 percent at the end of 2026. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. So the main thing is-and this is also a point in these alternative simulations-is that there are just many factors that go into how much tariffs will even go into consumer inflation. We don't know what will be tariffed, from which countries, for how long, and what size. We have inflation coming down, core inflation coming down to 2.5% next year. We're also going to be looking out for the labor market. We're not trying to make decisions about the longer run. We think our policy is working. We've seen inflation-well, over the last couple of years-come down a lot. We still think where we are is meaningfully, meaningfully restrictive. I think growth this year has been solid, it really has. I feel very good about where the economy is and the performance of the economy, and we want to keep that going. I don't think so, no. we moved ahead today with, with our, with the action, with, with an additional cut. we think the risks are roughly in balance as between the two mandates, and we think the labor market is, is in solid shape. we have made a great deal of progress. And we'll continue to do so and get back to 2 percent inflation. we're not going to settle for that. we are making progress. we think that our policy balances the risks. we expect another good year next year. we're in a really good place; our policy's in a really good place. we're 100 basis points closer to it right now. we're going to be, you know, cautious about, about further cuts. we monitor geopolitical risks really quickly. we don't overreact to a couple of months of higher readings or a couple months of lower readings.