Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. the Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue reducing our securities holdings. We've stated that we do not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range for the federal funds rate until we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we are prepared to respond. If that test is met, a reduction in our policy rate could be on the table as soon as the next meeting in September. We think what the data broadly show in the labor market is an ongoing, gradual normalization of labor market conditions. We are maintaining our restrictive stance of monetary policy in order to keep demand in line with supply and reduce inflationary pressures. We are attentive to risks on both sides of our dual mandate, and I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. We know that reducing policy restraint too soon or too much could result in a reversal of the progress we have seen on inflation. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. the time is coming at which it will begin to be appropriate to dial back that level of restrictions, restriction so that we may address both mandates. the overall sense of the Committee, as I mentioned, is that we're getting closer to the point at which it will be appropriate to begin to dial back restriction, but we're not quite at that point yet. we did have a-you know, we had a nice conversation about, about this issue today. we're committed to getting the job-inflation sustainably under 2 percent, but we need to take note of that progress, and we need to weigh the risks to the labor market and the risks to our inflation target now more equally than we did a year ago. we have to worry about that. we're watching really carefully for that. we're using our best thinking. we follow the many commentators who bless us with their commentary. we do not do that. We've had-we've had, you know, dissents. We haven't had so many during the pandemic era, and it just may be that we, we felt more united because we felt under a lot of pressure to get things right, but before the pandemic, we had plenty of dissents. So there's-there are always meaningful differences. I don't want to say-I don't want to be really specific about what we're going to do, but that's, that's not something we're thinking about right now. Of course, we haven't made any decisions at all as of today. the way the meeting is set up, the first day there's a discussion of financial stability because it's every other meeting we have that, and then we have an opportunity to comment on that. But I do think that we are, we're a consensus-driven organization. assuming that the totality of the data supports such an outcome. we're, we're watching to see, you know, which way the economy heads. we're not seeking that authority. we don't have any plan to. we don't have the authority to issue a CB-a retail CBDC that's available to the public.