Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dual mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Consumer spending appears to have remained solid and business fixed investment has continued to expand. In our SEP, the median projection of the unemployment rate is 4.5% at the end of this year and edges down thereafter. A challenging situation. Consistent with this view, the committee eliminated the aggregate limit on standing repo operations. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. At the Fed, we will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Uh just first turning to the statement the just to be clear we're on the same page here. Is this an early bet on AI? Is there some sense of uh improve improving productivity out there? What's what's driving that? So it is um it's partly that consumer spending has held up. You actually some of that is due to the uh the shutdown. But overall, yes, um you know, you know, for a few reasons. Fiscal policy is going to be supportive and as I mentioned, AI spending will continue. 12:0012 minutesThe consumer continues to spend. So it looks like uh the baseline would be solid growth next year. chair for taking our questions here. What is going on in terms of the dynamic of you get more growth but you don't get a whole lot of decline in unemployment? Um and u some of that may be AI. So it's basically a good thing but that may be that's certainly the implication. Colobby Smith with the New York Times. Um today's decision was clearly very divided. We made a decision today. We had you know nine out of 12 supported it. So fairly broad support. We'll just have to see and we will get, as you know, quite a bit of data. So we're going to get data but we're going to have to look at it carefully and with a somewhat skeptical eye by the time of the January meeting. I could make a case for either for either side. I mean I I could make that case. It's it's a close call. So what do you do? So, at what pace do you move? How how what what size moves do you make and that kind of thing? It's it's very it's a very challenging situation. Uh I think we're in a good place to, as I mentioned, to wait and see how the economy evolves. In the 1990s, the committee did two discrete sequences of three quarter point cuts. 20:0020 minutesSo, I don't think that um a a rate hike is anybody's base as the next thing is anybody's base case at this point. And I'm not hearing that. But as I said, we're we're well past well placed to to wait and see how that turns out. That is our expectation. Thank you. So in October I said um that there was no certainty of moving and that was that was indeed correct. So why did we move today? First of all, gradual cooling in the labor market has continued. Unemployment is now up 3/10en uh from June through September. So that would be negative 20,000 per month. You saw the ECI report today. It doesn't feel like a hot economy that wants to generate, you know, Philips curve kind of inflation. Thank you. We had a framework in place for monitoring it and nothing happened. And [snorts] it ticked up almost all the way to uh interest on reserve balances. There's nothing wrong with that. So, you know, we we announced that we're resuming reserve management purchases. It's just we need to keep an ample supply of reserves out there. Why so big? So, that's what happens on tax day. Reserves drop sharply and temporarily. So this seasonal buildup that we'll see in the next few months was going to happen anyway. There's also a secular ongoing growth of the balance sheet. So that's a small part that that's going on. So that's what's happening there. Chairman. Can you talk about how you're hoping the Supreme Court will rule and uh I'm just curious why the Fed's been so reticent on such a pivotal matter. Um you know, we're not uh we're not legal commentators. I'll give you a mulligan though. And so we've been trying to we've been sort of moving in the direction of neutral. We're in the high end of of the range of neutral, I would say. Chairman. Edward Lawrence uh with Fox Business. Um do you see the tariff price increases as passing through in the next 3 months? And then because of that, is jobs the threat to the economy? goods may have to be 30:0030 minutesshipped from other parts of the, you know, it may take, you know, quite a while for an individual tariff to take its full effect. Nine months is also an estimate. Um then you should start to see that coming down in the back half of next year. Does that hinder your current job right now or change your thinking at all? No mulligans for it. I mean, I look I look at these things pretty regularly. Same thing with surveys. So So why why are rates going up? It has to be something else. And that's that's a lot of what's been going on. It was to do with other developments. It's really it's really high costs and a lot of that is not the current rate of inflation. We want to we're trying to keep inflation under control, but also support the labor market and strong wages so that people are earning enough money and and feeling economically healthy again. Now supply of workers has also gone way down. People care a lot about that. sets their ability if they get laid off or if they're entering the labor force to find work. So that's that's really important to people. So it's really tariffs and that that's causing the most of the inflation overshoot. Our job is to make sure that it is and we will do that job. There's no risk-free path. You know, we didn't have to worry about inflation. Sorry about the about the labor market. Now it's different. We actually have risks to both. And I think we're we're doing the best we can for people. They do care about affordability. Elizabeth Schelsey with ABC News. Just to follow up, you keep talking about job growth being negative. They don't count everybody. And so we we expected and they correct it twice a year. I won't get the numbers exactly right. And that was that was exactly what happened. So and we think it's about 60,000 a month. So 40,000 jobs could be negative 20. That's job that's demand. Labor supply has also come down quite sharply. But I think a world where job creation is negative. So, it it's probably part of the story. So, it's it's a little bit curious. And we don't we don't know. This is a this may be different. What are they going to do? In the past, there's always been more work and higher productivity and incomes have risen. We're going to have to see. But right now is such early days. We don't think we see much. Uh it's certainly not showing up in in layoffs yet. What on the committee? Thank you. I wouldn't put too much in that. Thank you. It's price levels, not really the inflation rate holding some of these families back. We hear about this a lot. And so it's clearly a thing. So as how sustainable it is, I don't know. So um it's a good question how sustainable that is. The longest one in recorded history. It it's helping people at the lower income levels and that's what we all want to get back to. I mean, the average age or median age of a first-time home buyer is now 40 years old. That's the highest on record. Um you know housing supply is low. So it's may expensive them to move and you know we're we're a ways away from that changing. 45:0045 minutesUh, thanks Chris Rugabber, Associated Press. Uh, we had the wages report you mentioned today showing uh, moderating wage growth. It looks like inflation is cooling in your view. Why not uh why aren't we hearing more about maybe more cuts in this environment? Is that going to happen now? Uh you know that so that's the risk. So you'll see you see that. I I don't see that as particularly likely. And some people do see the the inflation risk and I I wouldn't dismiss that case. Neil Irwin with Axios. This is this is higher, you know, this is definitely higher. It may make other people have to find other jobs though. Matt Eaggan with CNN. Um after today, you only have three more meetings at the helm of the Fed. That's what I want to do. That's what I want. They have been all along, but ultimately that's that's what and it's you know I don't have time to think about the bigger things. Again, I'm I'm focused on I'm focused on my remaining time as chair. I haven't got anything new on that to tell you. 50:0050 minutesChairman Mark Hamri with Bank Rate. Insufficient money in the bank. We had higher growth. We had better labor market. And this is really due to the American economy. And uh you know, people are innovative. So thank you very much.