By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Committee were selected to serve until the selection of their successors at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2025: By unanimous vote, the Committee approved the FOMC Authorizations and Continuing Directives for Open Market Operations, with a revision to Section II, Continuing Directive for Domestic Open Market Operations, to add a standing seven-day term option to the existing standing Foreign and International Monetary Authorities Repurchase Agreement Operations. The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets over the intermeeting period. Financial conditions eased modestly but remained about as tight as they were last summer and much tighter than when the hiking cycle began. Over the intermeeting period, declines in nominal Treasury yields were concentrated at the front end of the yield curve. Staff models suggested that the declines in shorter-term yields were mostly attributable to a lower expected policy rate path and were concentrated in expected real rates, while expected inflation was little changed. Pricing of inflation derivatives continued to suggest a near-term path of inflation consistent with a return to 2 percent later this year. Broad equity prices reached new highs over the intermeeting period, but they were driven mostly by the strong gains of large-capitalization technology companies; broader measures of equity valuations were more subdued. Still, equities appeared priced for continued economic resilience. The manager turned next to expectations for monetary policy. Market participants broadly viewed recent inflation data and the December Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) as increasing the odds that rate cuts might start sooner than previously thought. The modal path of the federal funds rate from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants was little changed from December but showed an increased likelihood of earlier rate cuts. The modal path implied by options prices declined some over the intermeeting period. Both modal paths were closer to the December median SEP projection than the average path for the policy rate implied by futures prices, which had declined more substantially over the period. The futures-based path likely reflected the effect of investors' perceived probability of more substantial rate cuts rather than their baseline expectations. Communications over the period heightened market attention around a potential slowing of balance sheet runoff. Most Desk survey respondents expected a slowing of the pace to start by July, although there was considerable uncertainty about the exact start date. The average expected timing for the end of runoff shifted slightly earlier, and the portfolio size at the end of runoff was slightly higher than in the December surveys. Regarding developments in money markets and Desk operations, the effective federal funds rate was stable over the intermeeting period. While the Secured Overnight Financing Rate experienced temporary and modest upward pressure over the past few month-ends, including the year-end, such a pattern was common before the pandemic. The usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility continued to fall over the period, with balances below $600 billion in late January. Since June 2023, when the debt ceiling was suspended, usage of the ON RRP facility had declined at a much faster pace than the Federal Reserve securities portfolio, and reserve balances had increased some. As part of its ongoing market surveillance, the staff continued to monitor a wide range of money market indicators; those gauges suggested that the supply of reserves remained abundant. The staff also noted that once the ON RRP facility is either depleted or stabilized at a low level, reserves will decline at a pace comparable with the runoff of the Federal Reserve's securities portfolio, all else equal. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The data available at the time of the January 30-31 meeting indicated that growth in U.S. real gross domestic product (GDP) was solid in the fourth quarter of 2023 but had stepped down from the third quarter's strong pace. Labor market conditions continued to be tight but showed further signs of easing. Consumer price inflation had declined markedly over the course of the year, though it remained above 2 percent. Labor demand and supply continued to gradually move into better alignment. The average monthly pace of nonfarm payroll employment gains in the fourth quarter was slower than in the third quarter. The unemployment rate remained at 3.7 percent in December, the same as its third-quarter average. However, the labor force participation rate moved down, as did the employment-to-population ratio. The African American unemployment rate declined, and the rate for Hispanics rose; both rates were higher than those for Asians and for whites. The private-sector job openings rate was little changed in November and December, and the quits rate edged down; both rates were below their levels at the start of 2023. Easing labor market imbalances were also apparent in the wage data, with the December 12-month changes in the employment cost index and in average hourly earnings for all employees each below their year-earlier levels. Consumer price inflation continued to slow. The price index for total personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December, while core PCE price inflation-which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices-was 2.9 percent over the same period. Both total and core PCE price inflation were well below their year-earlier levels. The trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 3.3 percent in December, also lower than its level a year earlier. Survey measures of consumers' short-run inflation expectations moved lower in December, while survey measures of medium- to longer-term inflation expectations were broadly in line with the levels seen in the decade before the pandemic. According to the advance estimate, real GDP rose at a solid pace in the fourth quarter. Private domestic final purchases-which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum-also rose solidly, though at a slower rate. Real exports grew robustly in the fourth quarter of 2023, driven in part by a jump in exports of industrial supplies, which had declined markedly earlier last year. By contrast, real imports grew at a tepid pace, as gains in imports of capital goods and services were partially offset by declines in imports of consumer goods and autos. All told, net exports contributed about 1/2 percentage point to U.S. GDP growth in the fourth quarter after making roughly neutral contributions in the preceding two quarters. Foreign economic growth remained subdued in the fourth quarter. In the advanced foreign economies (AFEs), a significant tightening of monetary policy over the past two years, the erosion of real household incomes from high inflation rates, and the repercussions of last year's energy shock in Europe continued to weigh on economic activity. In China, a property-sector slump and depressed consumer confidence continued to weigh on domestic demand, with the government rolling out a series of policy measures to support growth. Economic activity in Asia excluding China firmed, supported in part by rebounding global demand for high-tech products. Foreign headline inflation continued to fall. However, the pace of decline had varied across countries as well as sectors, with a moderation in goods prices generally having outpaced that in services prices. Most major foreign central banks kept their policy rates unchanged over the intermeeting period and emphasized the need to maintain a stance of policy that is sufficiently restrictive to ensure that inflation falls back to their targets. In light of current economic conditions and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation, as well as the balance of risks, all participants judged it appropriate to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent at this meeting. All participants also judged it appropriate to continue the process of reducing the Federal Reserve's securities holdings, as described in the previously announced Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet. Participants viewed maintaining the current stance of policy as appropriate given the incoming data, which indicated that inflation had continued to move toward the Committee's 2 percent objective and that demand and supply in the labor market had continued to move into better balance. Participants commented that maintaining the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting would promote further progress toward the Committee's goals and allow participants to gather additional information to evaluate this progress. In discussing the policy outlook, participants judged that the policy rate was likely at its peak for this tightening cycle. They pointed to the decline in inflation seen during 2023 and to growing signs of demand and supply coming into better balance in product and labor markets as informing that view. Members agreed to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent. Members agreed to continue to reduce the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities, as described in its previously announced plans. Members also agreed that they did not expect that it would be appropriate to reduce the target range until they have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. Members agreed that the risks to achieving the Committee's employment and inflation goals were moving into better balance. Members also agreed to note the progress made toward the 2 percent inflation objective and the resilience of economic activity over the past year. Members agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. The Committee judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals are moving into better balance.