Today, in support of these goals, the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. the Committee anticipates that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate will be appropriate. we expect to begin reducing the size of our balance sheet at a coming meeting. the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate is 1.9 percent at the end of this year-a full percentage point higher than projected in December. the Committee made good progress on a plan for reducing our securities holdings, and we expect to announce the beginning of balance sheet reduction at a coming meeting. the implications of Russia's invasion of Ukraine for the U.S. economy are highly uncertain. the Committee is determined to take the measures necessary to restore price stability. we understand that high inflation imposes significant hardship, especially on those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. the median inflation projection of FOMC participants is 4.3 percent this year and falls to 2.7 percent next year and 2.3 percent in 2024; this trajectory is notably higher than projected in December, and participants continue to see risks as weighted to the upside. the economy is very strong and well positioned to handle tighter monetary policy. we will need to be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook. the probability of a recession within the next year is not particularly elevated. We have a plan over the course of this year to raise interest rates steadily and also to run off the balance sheet. If we conclude that it would be appropriate to move more quickly, we'll do so. We're going to use them. The Committee acutely feels its obligation to move to make sure that we restore price stability and is determined to use its tools to do so. We will take the necessary steps to ensure that high inflation does not become entrenched, while also supporting a strong labor market. We made excellent progress toward agreeing on the parameters of a plan to shrink the balance sheet. We'll actually begin a runoff at a coming meeting. We need our policy to transmit to the real economy. We're prepared to use our tools as needed to restore price stability. We'll deal with what comes, whether it's better or worse. So I want to clear one thing up again. And that is that nothing in our new framework or in the changes that we made has caused us to wait longer to raise interest rates. The goal, of course, is to restore price stability while also sustaining a strong labor market. We do understand that these higher prices, no matter what the source, have real effects on people's well-being. But it's really, especially, on people who use most of their income to buy essentials like food, housing, and transportation. So the way that works, I would explain, is, as we raise interest rates, that should gradually slow down demand for the interest-sensitive parts of the economy. We've had price stability for a very long time and maybe come to take it for granted. We will do that. Our intention is to bring inflation back down to 2 percent, while still sustaining a strong labor market. We think this labor market can handle, as I mentioned, tighter monetary policy. We expect that to continue. We need to use our tools to move supply and demand back. We're not going to let high inflation become entrenched. We're acutely aware of the need to restore price stability while keeping a strong labor market.