today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged. At today's meeting, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent and to continue reducing the size of our balance sheet. We will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. Our obligation is to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored and to prevent a one-time increase in the price level from becoming an ongoing inflation problem. We intend to wrap up any modifications to our Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy by late summer. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. We do expect to see more of them over coming months. We will see how the labor market progresses. We think the appropriate thing to do is to hold where we are as we learn more. We do monitor all those things. The unemployment rate, at 4.2 percent, remains low and has stayed in a narrow range for the past year. Inflation has come down a great deal but has been running somewhat above our 2 percent longer-run objective. As long as the economy is solid, though-as long as we're seeing the kind of labor market that we have and reasonably decent growth and inflation moving down, we feel like the right thing to do is to be where we are, with where our policy stance is, and just learn more. We know that the time will come; it come-could come quickly. It could not come quickly. We feel like we're going to learn a great deal more over the summer on tariffs. We have to be humble about our ability to forecast it. We did have strong support for today's decision and broad agreement that our policy stance does leave us in a good place. As we see more data, we're going to learn more about where inflation is headed. We expect a meaningful amount of inflation to arrive in coming months. We have to take that into account. We're going to look at those with staff briefing and a lot of thought in the fall. We think our policy is well positioned to deliver that and to be able to respond in a timely way as the data lead us around. We're trying to restore price stability. We can take the time to do that, because unemployment is 4.2 percent. The economy seems to be in solid shape. Monetary policy has to be forward looking. We cut rates to zero immediately. The economy seems to be in solid shape. We think that our current stance of monetary policy is in a good place. We're doing a careful scrub of the Board and all of the Reserve Banks. We think we can get there in a year, in a couple of years. We don't sit around and debate or really discuss-we, we take fiscal policy as fully exogenous. We are starting to see, you know, layoffs. It's not a place to-I would want to keep investing in that. The framework goes back to-the framework document goes back to 2012. We're watching-like everybody else is-what's going on. We don't have a "house view" on that. It's a pretty good labor market. We don't see signs of weakness. There are a number of people on the Committee who wrote down no cuts this year but some cuts next year. It's not guaranteed.