A Monetary Policy Meeting of the Bank of Japan Policy Board was held in the Head Office of the Bank of Japan in Tokyo on Wednesday, October 30, 2024, from 2:00 p.m. to 4:15 p.m., and on Thursday, October 31, from 9:00 a.m. The Bank had been conducting money market operations in accordance with the guideline for money market operations decided at the previous meeting on September 19 and 20, 2024. The uncollateralized overnight call rate had been in the range of 0.225 to 0.228 percent. In October 2024, it had cut down the monthly purchase amount by about 400 billion yen, to about 4.9 trillion yen per month; this was in accordance with the JGB reduction plan decided at the July 2024 meeting. In the money market, the uncollateralized overnight call rate had been at around 0.25 percent. The Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX) had risen slightly. Yields on 10-year JGBs had also risen slightly, moving in line with U.S. interest rates. In the foreign exchange market, the yen had depreciated against the U.S. dollar mainly in response to the rise in U.S. interest rates. Overseas economies had grown moderately on the whole. economy had grown moderately, mainly led by private consumption, although the economy had been affected by past policy interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. European economies had bottomed out, although weakness remained in part. Despite government support, the pace of improvement in the Chinese economy had slowed, with continued downward pressure from adjustments in the real estate and labor markets. Emerging and commodity-exporting economies other than China had improved moderately on the whole, as exports had picked up, mainly led by IT-related goods. As for the outlook, overseas economies were projected to keep growing moderately. There were high uncertainties regarding the outlook, such as the impact of past policy interest rate hikes by central banks, developments in the Chinese economy, and how geopolitical tensions would unfold. With respect to overseas financial markets, U.S. long-term interest rates had risen significantly, reflecting economic indicators being more solid than market expectations. European long-term interest rates had also risen slightly, moving in line with U.S. interest rates. stock prices had increased slightly reflecting economic indicators being more solid than market expectations. European stock prices were unchanged over the intermeeting period. Meanwhile, currencies in many emerging economies had depreciated against the background of the U.S. dollar's appreciation reflecting the firmness of the U.S. Crude oil prices were more or less unchanged over the intermeeting period. Japan's economy had recovered moderately, although some weakness had been seen in part. Regarding the outlook, the economy was likely to keep growing at a pace above its potential growth rate, with overseas economies continuing to grow moderately and as a virtuous cycle from income to spending gradually intensified against the background of factors such as accommodative financial conditions. Exports had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, as overseas economies continued to grow moderately, exports were projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to a recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Industrial production had been more or less flat. Regarding the outlook, it was projected to return to an uptrend, mainly due to the recovery in global demand for IT-related goods. Corporate profits had improved. Business sentiment had stayed at a favorable level. In this situation, business fixed investment had been on a moderate increasing trend. With regard to the outlook, such investment was expected to continue on an increasing trend, mainly on the back of accommodative financial conditions, as corporate profits followed an improving trend. Private consumption had been on a moderate increasing trend despite the impact of price rises and other factors. The consumption activity index (CAI; real, travel balance adjusted) had increased for the April-June quarter of 2024, as automakers that had suspended production and shipment had resumed their activities. It had then increased slightly on average in the July-August period, relative to the April-June quarter, partly because of a rise in sales of goods due to the effects of hot weather and with services consumption increasing moderately as a trend. Based on anecdotal information from firms and high-frequency indicators, private consumption since September seemed to have been on a moderate increasing trend, although some firms had pointed to the effects of consumers' increased thriftiness due to price rises. Consumer sentiment had bottomed out. Regarding the outlook, for the time being, although private consumption was expected to be affected by price rises, it was projected to continue on a moderate increasing trend, with nominal employee income continuing to improve. Thereafter, it was likely to continue increasing moderately as employee income continued to improve. The employment and income situation had improved moderately. Regarding the number of employed persons, that of regular employees had been on a moderate uptrend, albeit with fluctuations, mainly in the information and communications industry, which had been facing severe labor shortages. The number of non-regular employees overall had been more or less flat recently: while the number of non-regular employees in industries such as face-to-face services had been on an increasing trend, the number of involuntary non-regular employees had been on a declining trend with labor market conditions tightening. Nominal wages per employee had increased clearly, reflecting the results of the 2024 annual spring labor-management wage negotiations and an increase in bonuses supported by high levels of corporate profits. With regard to the outlook, nominal employee income was likely to continue to see a clear increase in reflection of an acceleration in nominal wage growth. A positive trend in the year-on-year rate of change in real employee income was expected to take hold, albeit with fluctuations. As for prices, commodity prices had risen on the whole. The rate of increase in the producer price index (PPI, adjusted for the effects of seasonal changes in electricity rates) relative to three months earlier had slowed, mainly reflecting the past decline in commodity prices, and had been only slightly positive. The year-on-year rate of increase in the services producer price index (SPPI, excluding international transportation) remained relatively high, in the range of 2.5-3.0 percent recently, mainly on the back of a rise in personnel expenses. The year-on-year rate of increase in the consumer price index (CPI, all items less fresh food) had been at around 2.5 percent recently, as services prices continued to rise moderately, reflecting factors such as wage increases, although the effects of a pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices had waned. Inflation expectations had risen moderately. With regard to the outlook for the CPI, while the effects of the pass-through to consumer prices of cost increases led by the past rise in import prices were expected to wane, underlying CPI inflation was expected to increase gradually, since it was projected that the output gap would improve and that medium- to long-term inflation expectations would rise with the virtuous cycle between wages and prices continuing to intensify. In the second half of the projection period of the October Outlook for Economic Activity and Prices (Outlook Report), underlying CPI inflation was likely to be at a level that was generally consistent with the price stability target. Through fiscal 2025, it was expected that a dissipation of the effects of the government's measures pushing down inflation would make a positive contribution to the year-on-year rate of increase in the CPI (all items less fresh food), whereas factors such as the recent decline in crude oil and other resource prices would make a negative contribution. Japan's financial conditions had been accommodative. Real interest rates had been negative. Firms' funding costs had increased but remained at low levels on the whole. Firms' demand for funds had increased moderately on the back of, for example, the recovery in economic activity as well as mergers and acquisitions of firms. With regard to credit supply, financial institutions' lending attitudes as perceived by firms had been accommodative. Issuance conditions for CP and corporate bonds had been favorable. In this situation, the year-on-year rate of increase in the amount outstanding of bank lending had been at around 3 percent. That in the aggregate amount outstanding of CP and corporate bonds had been in the range of 3.0-3.5 percent. Firms' financial positions had been favorable. The pace of increase in the number of bankruptcies of firms had slowed recently. Meanwhile, the year-on-year rate of change in the money stock had been at around 1.5 percent. Japan's financial system maintained stability on the whole. Profits of major banks had been firm, owing in particular to a rise in net interest income, mainly composed of interest on loans, and to an increase in net non-interest income, such as fees and commissions. Meanwhile, their credit costs had been at low levels. Their capital adequacy ratios remained sufficiently above the regulatory requirements. Profits of regional banks had been firm, mainly on the back of the rise in net interest income. With regard to the financial cycle, of the Financial Activity Indexes (FAIXs) that comprise the heat map in the Financial System Report, 11 showed neither an overheating nor a contraction of financial activities, and three -- including one indicating stock prices -- showed deviations from the trends toward overheating. Regarding the financial gap, the positive gap remained narrower than a while ago. Although attention continued to be warranted on the pace of increase in stock and real estate prices, there had been no overheating of financial activities overall. However, it was necessary to continue paying close attention to whether financial activities would not significantly deviate from real economic activity. Since the decision at the April Monetary Policy Meeting to conduct a review of monetary policy from a broad perspective (the Review), the Bank had conducted a wide range of initiatives such as (1) a number of analyses related to the Review, (2) surveys and interviews with households, firms, and financial institutions, (3) exchanges of views on occasions such as meetings of the Policy Board members with local and business leaders, and (4) workshops and other events involving experts at home and abroad. In light of these initiatives, the staff had formulated a proposal outlining an approach for compiling the final results of the Review, and the schedule for finalization. The staff proposed that the final results would begin with a look back on developments in economic activity, prices, and financial conditions over the past 25 years, and on monetary policy implemented during the period. Considering the findings of the look-back, the final results would lay out the implications that these findings had for the Bank's conduct of monetary policy from a somewhat long-term perspective. In addition, with a view to enhancing the Review's objectivity and transparency, it would be worthwhile for the Bank to solicit comments and opinions on the final results from external experts. The staff also suggested that, based on the discussions at this meeting, the secretariat of the Monetary Policy Meeting would formulate a proposal concerning the final results. After having further discussions at the December Monetary Policy Meeting, the text of "The Bank's View" section of the final results would be decided, followed by the publication of the full text after that meeting. Based on the above staff reports, members shared the recognition that, regarding the editorial policy and the schedule for completing the Review, it was appropriate to proceed in accordance with the staff's proposal. Moreover, they shared the recognition that it was also appropriate for the Bank to explain to the public at the press conference after this meeting the approach for finalizing the results of the Review and its intention to confirm the results and decide on their release at the next Monetary Policy Meeting in December. Some members pointed out that deflation in Japan from the latter half of the 1990s had been triggered by factors such as changes in corporate behavior after the burst of the bubble. One of these members expressed the view that cautiousness in corporate behavior had increased considerably due to various factors, including a sharp decline in asset prices, intensified competition vis-à-vis overseas firms, and the experience of financial crises. A different member commented that, with a deterioration in business performance, firms' cost-cutting efforts, moves to shift supply chains overseas, and their stance toward curbing domestic investment had also contributed significantly to the deflation. Some members expressed the recognition that the behavior and mindset based on the assumption that wages and prices would not increase easily had been entrenched in society, as the observed inflation rate had been at around 0 percent for a prolonged period, and this had made it more difficult to overcome the deflation or low-inflation environment. One of these members stated that it was particularly important that rigidity in services prices had risen. A few members pointed out that quantitative analyses and extensive surveys among firms, both conducted as part of the Review, had revealed aspects of firms' wage- and price-setting behavior that previous research, which mainly used macro analysis, had been unable to fully capture. Based on this assessment of economic and price developments, members discussed the impact of monetary easing on economic activity and prices. One member expressed the view that monetary easing through 2012 had not provided sufficient stimulative effects under the zero lower bound, but it could be assessed as having played a large role in maintaining stability in the financial system through the provision of liquidity. With regard to large-scale monetary easing from 2013, some members expressed the view that it had firmly exerted its effects and contributed to moving Japan's economy out of a state of deflation. One of these members noted that large-scale monetary easing had stimulated economic activity and prices through a decline in real interest rates, and this had led to a significant increase in employment. A different member commented that it was of great significance that, through various quantitative analyses, the Bank had been able to confirm the impact of large-scale monetary easing on economic activity and prices. One member said that large-scale monetary easing had exerted some effects on aspects of influencing expectations, in addition to lowering nominal interest rates. On the other hand, one member noted that the extent of the effects of each monetary easing measure from 2013 was unclear. In addition, the member expressed the view that the Bank should review its initial aim, from 2013, of achieving 2 percent inflation within two years. On this basis, some members pointed out that it had taken longer than expected for wages and prices to increase even under large-scale monetary easing. One of these members stated that this reflected the fact that the behavior and mindset based on the assumption that wages and prices would not increase easily had been entrenched in society. Some members added that the sharp rise in import prices after the COVID-19 pandemic had played an important role in the recent changes in expectation formation and behavior among households and firms. Meanwhile, a few members expressed the view that the channel via asset markets had been important in terms of the transmission mechanism of large-scale monetary easing. One of these members said that the global situation needed to be taken into account when assessing large-scale monetary easing -- namely, the fact that central banks in the United States and Europe had conducted unconventional monetary policy measures.