Participants continued their discussion related to the ongoing review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. At this meeting, they discussed potential changes to the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Participants agreed that, in light of fundamental changes in the economy over the past decade-including generally lower levels of interest rates and persistent disinflationary pressures in the United States and abroad-and given what has been learned during the monetary policy framework review, refining the statement could be helpful in increasing the transparency and accountability of monetary policy. Such refinements could also facilitate well-informed decisionmaking by households and businesses, and, as a result, better position the Committee to meet its maximum-employment and price-stability objectives. Participants noted that the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy serves as the foundation for the Committee's policy actions and that it would be important to finalize all changes to the statement in the near future. The System Open Market Account (SOMA) manager turned first to a review of U.S. financial market developments. Over the intermeeting period, overall financial conditions eased slightly. Broad equity price indexes were roughly flat even as concerns about the resurgence in the coronavirus (COVID-19) in the United States grew. At the same time, Treasury yields and other sovereign yields declined, and the U.S. dollar weakened. Overall, volatility remained subdued relative to recent periods. While the S&P 500 index was little changed, the effect of renewed outbreaks was evident in the differentiated performance across S&P industry sectors. Virus-sensitive sectors and firms with weaker fundamentals underperformed over the period, as they had over the broader pandemic episode. Airline and hotel share prices declined sharply, and share prices of banks-which faced earnings pressures from large loan loss provisions and compressed net interest margins-continued to underperform. As the SOMA manager highlighted, the S&P 500 index has been supported by its significant share of technology firms, many of which have been relatively resilient to virus containment measures. In contrast, smaller firms not well represented in the S&P 500 may be experiencing greater effects on their businesses due to the virus-a possibility consistent with the underperformance of the broader Russell 2000 index over the intermeeting period. The market-implied path of the federal funds rate shifted down modestly over the intermeeting period. The corresponding path implied by responses to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants also fell, as the probabilities placed on rate hikes next year and in 2022 declined. Market pricing suggested that the federal funds rate was expected to first rise above the current target range in 2024. That timing was broadly consistent with survey respondents' expectations regarding the timing of the first increase in the target range, although the range of survey responses was wide. The SOMA manager noted that survey responses suggested that the dispersion in views about the timing of a rate increase might be related to differing views about the economic conditions that would prevail when the FOMC first lifted the target range, as survey respondents' views about those conditions were also dispersed. The SOMA manager reported that market functioning across a number of market segments remained stable at significantly improved levels. In Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) markets, many market functioning indicators had returned to levels prevailing before the pandemic, and, as a result, purchases were conducted at the minimum pace directed by the Committee. Importantly, with conditions in MBS markets continuing to stabilize, primary mortgage rates fell to historically low levels over the intermeeting period. Conditions in short-term dollar funding markets were also stable, with overnight rates close to the interest on excess reserves (IOER) rate. In broader dollar funding markets, term unsecured rates and foreign exchange swap spreads were also steady. Federal Reserve repurchase agreements (repos) outstanding fell from $185 billion to zero over the intermeeting period. With the timing of the overnight operations now having shifted to the afternoon when most trading activity in the repo market is complete and with minimum bid rates above the IOER rate, repo operations had been effectively positioned in a backstop role for the time being. As term U.S. dollar liquidity swaps matured, the amounts outstanding fell to around $120 billion, less than a third of the peak reached in late May. In light of improved conditions across these markets, the Federal Reserve's balance sheet declined over the intermeeting period from $7.2 trillion to $7.0 trillion. The decline was driven by the reductions in repo and U.S. dollar liquidity swaps outstanding. These reductions more than offset ongoing purchases of Treasury securities and agency MBS. The manager discussed a proposal to extend the temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap arrangements as well as the temporary FIMA (Foreign and International Monetary Authorities) Repo Facility through March of next year. Keeping these arrangements in place would help sustain recent improvements in global dollar funding markets and support smooth functioning of the U.S. Treasury market. Under the proposal, provided that the Committee had no objections, the Chair would approve the extension of the temporary liquidity swap lines following the meeting. The extensions of the swap and FIMA repo arrangements would be announced following this meeting. By unanimous vote, the Committee voted to approve a resolution that extended through March 31, 2021, the expiration of a temporary repo facility for foreign and international monetary authorities (FIMA Repo Facility). Secretary's note: The Chair subsequently provided approval to the Desk, following the procedures in the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations, to extend the expiration of the temporary U.S. dollar liquidity swap lines through March 31, 2021. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The coronavirus outbreak and the measures undertaken to contain its spread continued to have substantial effects on economic activity in the United States and abroad. The information available at the time of the July 28-29 meeting suggested that U.S. economic activity had picked up in May and June following sharp declines in March and April. Measured on a quarterly basis, however, it appeared that real gross domestic product (GDP) had decreased at a historically rapid rate in the second quarter. Labor market conditions improved considerably in June, but the improvements over May and June were modest relative to the substantial deterioration seen in March and April. Consumer price inflation-as measured by the 12-month percentage change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE) through May-remained well below the rates that prevailed early in the year. Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded robustly in June, as it did in May, but the gains in those two months offset only about one-third of the jobs lost in March and April. The unemployment rate moved down further to 11.1 percent, but it continued to be far above its level at the beginning of the year. The unemployment rates for African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics declined, on balance, over the past two months but remained well above the national average. Both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio increased further in June. Initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits continued to decrease, on net, through the middle of July, but the pace of declines had slowed in recent weeks. In addition, weekly estimates of private-sector payrolls constructed by the Board's staff using data provided by the payroll processor ADP, along with some other high-frequency measures-such as employment at small businesses and job postings-suggested that employment gains had slowed since mid-June but likely were still strong. Total PCE price inflation was 0.5 percent over the 12 months ending in May, reflecting both weak aggregate demand and a considerable drop in consumer energy prices. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer food and energy prices, was 1.0 percent over the same 12-month period. In contrast, the trimmed mean measure of 12-month PCE price inflation constructed by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas was 2.0 percent in May. The consumer price index (CPI) increased 0.6 percent over the 12 months ending in June, while core CPI inflation was 1.2 percent over the same period. On a monthly basis, the available data indicated that consumer prices-as measured by the PCE price index in May and the CPI in June-had turned up after having fallen in March and April; this rebound was evident in many price categories that were most affected by social-distancing measures. Recent readings on survey-based measures of longer-run inflation expectations were little changed on balance. The University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers measure for the next 5 to 10 years was unchanged, on net, from May to early July; the three-year-ahead measure from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Survey of Consumer Expectations edged down in June but remained within its recent range. Real PCE rebounded robustly in May, with particularly strong growth in spending for consumer goods but more moderate gains in expenditures for consumer services. In June, the components of retail sales used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to estimate PCE, along with light motor vehicle sales, increased further. Overall, however, real consumer spending remained well below the levels that prevailed at the beginning of the year. Moreover, recent high-frequency indicators of spending on many consumer services-such as restaurant dining, hotel accommodations, and air travel-remained very subdued. Real disposable personal income fell back in May, primarily reflecting the waning of the substantial boost that federal stimulus payments had provided in April. However, wage and salary income increased strongly in May, though to a level still below its February value, and unemployment insurance benefits continued to be substantial, leaving the personal saving rate quite elevated. The consumer sentiment measures from both the Michigan survey and the Conference Board survey improved notably in June but fell back somewhat in July. Housing-sector activity bounced back strongly in recent months, likely boosted in part by the effects of low interest rates. Starts and building permit issuance for single-family homes, along with starts of multifamily units, increased significantly over May and June; however, these construction measures were still below their pre-pandemic levels. Sales of existing homes rose substantially over those two months, and new home sales also moved up on net. Indicators of business fixed investment suggested that investment had generally not begun to recover but that the pace of declines had moderated, on balance, in recent months. Nominal new orders and shipments of nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft increased in May and June, but they remained below their levels at the beginning of the year, while some measures of business sentiment improved. Nominal business spending on nonresidential structures outside of the drilling and mining sector declined further in May, and the number of crude oil and natural gas rigs in operation-an indicator of business spending on structures in the drilling and mining sector-continued to decrease through late July. Industrial production expanded briskly in May and June, as many factories reopened or ramped up production. The surge in manufacturing production was led by appreciable gains in the output of motor vehicles and related parts following extended automaker shutdowns from mid-March through April. In contrast, output in the mining sector-which includes crude oil extraction-decreased further, reflecting the effects of still-low crude oil prices. Total real government purchases appeared to have increased moderately, on balance, in the second quarter. Federal defense spending continued to rise through June, and nondefense purchases were likely boosted in the second quarter by fiscal policy measures taken in response to the coronavirus. In contrast, state and local purchases looked to have declined markedly, as the payrolls of these governments shrank further in June, and nominal state and local construction expenditures decreased, on net, over April and May. The nominal U.S. international trade deficit widened in May relative to April, as exports decreased more than imports. The fall in exports was broad based across goods categories, while lower imports of automotive products more than offset higher imports of consumer goods and industrial supplies. Following April's historic plunge, exports and imports of services fell a bit further in May, driven by the continued suspension of most international travel. Preliminary data for June showed some recovery in nominal goods exports and imports. Altogether, the available data suggested that net exports were a significant drag on the rate of change in real GDP in the second quarter. Incoming data suggested that foreign economic activity plunged in the second quarter as a result of the coronavirus pandemic and the measures undertaken to contain it. There were also signs that many foreign economies started to recover over the past few months as restrictions were gradually eased. In China, where economic activity had collapsed in the first quarter and restrictions were rolled back earlier than elsewhere, the preliminary GDP release showed that the economy bounced back strongly in the second quarter. In the euro area and other advanced foreign economies, recent data on industrial production and, to a lesser extent, consumer spending showed a partial recovery in May and June. However, continued uncertainty about the course of the virus was underscored by the fact that some emerging market economies were struggling to control the pandemic, while some other countries that previously contained the virus were experiencing flare-ups of new infections. Inflation rates continued to fall in most foreign economies through June because of low energy prices and weak demand, and measures of inflation expectations remained subdued. Amid sizable fluctuations, changes in asset prices over the intermeeting period were mixed on net. Financial market sentiment was boosted by better-than-expected economic data for the United States, China, and Europe. However, the boost to sentiment appeared to have been offset by concerns about the domestic spread of the coronavirus and its uncertain effects on the future course of the economy. On balance, broad equity price indexes were roughly unchanged, Treasury yields declined and the yield curve flattened, corporate and municipal bond spreads narrowed, and the dollar weakened somewhat. Liquidity conditions continued to normalize but had not returned to their pre-pandemic levels in several markets. Over the intermeeting period, yields on nominal Treasury securities fell and the yield curve flattened on net. Yields declined somewhat at the start of the intermeeting period following the more-accommodative-than-expected June FOMC communications. The further decline in yields that occurred over subsequent weeks likely reflected concerns about the surge in confirmed coronavirus cases across many parts of the United States. Measures of inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation Protected Securities maturing over the next few years continued to rebound from their sharp drop in mid-March. The rebound was reportedly driven primarily by investors' interpretation of recent economic data, which suggested that the risk of deflation had abated somewhat, as well as by some improvement in market liquidity. Despite the uptick, both the 5-year and 10-year measures of inflation compensation remained below their pre-pandemic levels. The expected path of the federal funds rate based on a straight read of overnight index swap quotes declined modestly and stayed close to the effective lower bound at least through the first half of 2024. Market-implied forward rates referring to 2021 and 2022 remained slightly negative; however, market commentary suggested that investors generally did not expect the FOMC to lower the federal funds target range below zero. Broad stock price indexes fluctuated substantially, largely in reaction to news about the pandemic and economic activity, and ended the intermeeting period roughly unchanged. Technology stocks continued to outperform the broader market, whereas equity prices in the bank and energy sectors fell notably over the period. One-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index-the VIX-rose markedly earlier in the period but subsequently declined and ended the period lower. Equity market volatility remained elevated relative to its normal range over the past several years. Spreads of investment- and speculative-grade corporate bond yields over comparable-maturity Treasury yields narrowed somewhat and had retraced most of their pandemic-related surge. Conditions in short-term funding markets were generally stable over the intermeeting period. Spreads for negotiable certificates of deposit and most types of commercial paper were little changed, on net, and spreads for most types of asset-backed securities were also stable. The effective federal funds rate (EFFR) and Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) increased, on average, 4 basis points and 5 basis points, respectively, from the previous intermeeting period. The decline in total outstanding Federal Reserve repo operations from $185 billion to zero largely reflected an increase in minimum bid rates at the Federal Reserve's overnight and term repo operations. Risk sentiment abroad fluctuated over the intermeeting period as market participants weighed increasing coronavirus cases in a number of countries against improving economic data releases and ongoing fiscal and monetary policy support. Capital market financing conditions for nonfinancial firms eased somewhat further over the intermeeting period, with yields on corporate bonds remaining near historical lows. In the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported a notable tightening of lending standards on commercial and industrial (C&I) loans to firms of all sizes in the second quarter. Credit quality of nonfinancial corporations deteriorated further over the intermeeting period with a sizable volume of speculative-grade debt downgraded in June. Financing conditions for small businesses remained tight. Financing conditions for commercial real estate (CRE), particularly those in capital markets, recovered further over the intermeeting period. Financing conditions in the residential mortgage market were generally unchanged over the intermeeting period. The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the financial system, and, on balance, characterized the financial vulnerabilities of the U.S. financial system as notable, while noting an unusually high level of uncertainty associated with this assessment. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were notable. The expected sharp decline in second-quarter real GDP would likely result in a rise in the ratio of household debt to nominal GDP. The staff assessed vulnerabilities arising from financial leverage to have increased from low to moderate, citing uncertainty about losses connected to business loans for banks and a higher weight on vulnerabilities connected to leverage at nonbank financial institutions. Participants noted that the coronavirus pandemic was causing tremendous human and economic hardship across the United States and around the world. Participants agreed that the path of the economy would depend on the course of the virus, which was seen as highly uncertain. Participants noted that the rebound in consumer spending from its trough in April had been particularly strong. Participants observed that with this rebound, household spending likely had recovered about half of its previous decline. Participants noted that households' spending on discretionary services-such as leisure, travel, and hospitality-would likely be subdued for some time and thus would be a factor restraining the pace of recovery. Participants generally agreed that actions of consumers and businesses in taking steps to slow the spread of the virus, along with developments in public health, would be critical in ensuring a durable reopening of businesses. Participants also discussed the nature of the current situation in the labor market. Participants noted that the fiscal support initiated in the spring through the CARES Act had been very important in granting some financial relief to millions of families. Members agreed that the path of the economy would depend significantly on the course of the virus. Members decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent. Members agreed that they would continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook-including information related to public health-as well as global developments and muted inflation pressures, and that they would use the Committee's tools and act as appropriate to support the economy. To support the flow of credit to households and businesses, members agreed that over coming months it would be appropriate for the Federal Reserve to increase its holdings of Treasury securities and agency RMBS and CMBS at least at the current pace to sustain smooth market functioning, thereby fostering effective transmission of monetary policy to broader financial conditions. Members noted that they would closely monitor developments and be prepared to adjust their plans as appropriate. The Committee expects to maintain this target range until it is confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve its maximum employment and price stability goals. The ongoing public health crisis will weigh heavily on economic activity, employment, and inflation in the near term, and poses considerable risks to the economic outlook over the medium term. Members agreed that the Federal Reserve was committed to using its full range of tools to support the U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment and price stability goals. Members stated that they expected to maintain this target range until they were confident that the economy had weathered recent events and was on track to achieve the Committee's maximum employment and price stability goals. The Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook, including information related to public health, as well as global developments and muted inflation pressures, and will use its tools and act as appropriate to support the economy. In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the stance of monetary policy, the Committee will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation objective. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and international developments. To support the flow of credit to households and businesses, over coming months the Federal Reserve will increase its holdings of Treasury securities and agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities at least at the current pace to sustain smooth market functioning, thereby fostering effective transmission of monetary policy to broader financial conditions. In addition, the Open Market Desk will continue to offer large-scale overnight and term repurchase agreement operations. The Committee will closely monitor developments and is prepared to adjust its plans as appropriate. Voting for this action: Jerome H. Powell, John C. Williams, Michelle W. Bowman, Lael Brainard, Richard H. Clarida, Patrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Randal K. Voting against this action: It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, September 15-16, 2020. The meeting adjourned at 10:55 a.m. By notation vote completed on June 30, 2020, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on June 9-10, 2020.