today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to 3¾ to 4 percent. the Committee also decided to conclude the reduction of our aggregate securities holdings as of December 1. we judged it appropriate at this meeting to take another step toward a more neutral policy stance. A further reduction in the policy rate at the December meeting is not a foregone conclusion-far from it. we will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. the balance sheet is shrinking at a very, very slow pace now. we will be adding reserves at a certain point. we want to move more in the direction of a balance sheet that more closely reflects the outstanding Treasuries. the risks are to the upside for inflation and to the downside for employment. So that'll happen for a time, but not a tremendously long time. But at a certain point, you'll want to start-you'll want to start reserves to start gradually growing to keep up with the size of the banking system and the size of the economy. So we'll be adding reserves at a certain point, and that's the last point. Even then we'll be-we didn't make decisions about this today, but we did talk today about the composition of the balance sheet. And there's a desire that the balance sheet be-right now it's got a lot more duration than the outstanding universe of Treasury securities, and we want to move to a place where we're closer to that duration. So, basically, you've seen goods prices increasing, and that's really due to tariffs, and that's due-that's compared to a longer-run trend of very, very mild deflation in goods. On the other side of that, good news-housing services inflation has been coming down and is expected to continue to come down. So if you remember, a year-a couple years ago, that's the one that just, we kept expecting it to do that. Now it's doing-it's been doing that for some time, and we expect to continue that. So I think-we're watching this very carefully. I think it's-it's not the case that we're just assuming that it's going to be a one-time inflation. We understand fully that this is a risk we have to monitor and ultimately. Well, again, the part of services inflation that is-that isn't coming down as we would like it to is the nonmarket part of nonhousing services. And, overall, that's just something that we expect will come down. So that should also help. I want to say, though, we're absolutely committed to returning inflation to 2 percent. If you look at longer-term surveys or market pricing, you will see that that's a credible commitment, and there should be no question that that's where we're going. So I don't-I don't think that the-you're right, there's a-there's a lot of data centers being built and other investments being made around the country and around the world. And big U.S. companies are just investing a lot of resources in thinking about how AI, which will be based on those data centers, run through data centers, is going to affect their businesses. So it's a big deal. I don't think that the spending that happens to build data centers all over the country is especially interest sensitive. It's based on longer-run, it's-longer-run assessments that this is an area where there's going to be a lot of investment and that's going to drive higher productivity and that sort of things. I don't know how those investments will work out, but I don't think they're particularly interest sensitive compared to some of the other sectors. So it's a lot of things. And it doesn't replace government data, but you know all of these, it's-I'll just mention some of the many, many names: PriceStats, Adobe, and others. And for wage inflation, there's ADP data. On spending-you're going to ask about spending at some point-there are lots of other things that we look at. But it's, again, it's, it's many, many different sources and, again, including what we get out of the Beige Book, which will be sort of-come out mid-cycle as always. And it doesn't replace the government data, but it gives us a picture. Again, I think if something material were happening, if there were material developments, I think we would pick that up. I don't think we'll be able to have a very granular understanding of the economy while this-while this data is not available. And we're going to do our jobs, we're going to collect every scrap of data we can find, evaluate it, and think carefully about it. And that's our jobs-that's what we're going to do. If you ask me, 'Could it affect the December meeting?', I'm not saying it's going to, but, yeah, you could imagine that-what do you do if-what do you do if you're driving in the fog? You slow down. So that could or could not. I don't know how that's going to play into things. We may get-the data may come back. But there's a possibility that it would make sense to be more cautious about moving. I'm just saying it's certainly a possibility that you would say, 'We really can't see, so let's slow down.' So those are-those are both things that we're watching very, very, very carefully. To start with the layoffs, you're right-you see a significant number of companies either announcing that they are not going to be doing much hiring or actually doing layoffs, and much of the time they're talking about AI and what it can do. So we're watching that very carefully. And, yes, it could absolutely have implications for job creation. We don't really see it in the initial claims data yet. Now, it's not a surprise that we don't-it takes some time for it to get in there-but we're watching that really carefully. But, again, don't see it yet in the-in the initial claims data. We are-if you listen to the earnings calls or the reports of big, public, consumer-facing companies, many, many of them are saying that there's a bifurcated economy there and that consumers at the lower end are struggling and buying less and shifting to lower-cost products, but that at the top, people are spending at the higher income and wealth, and they're-so much, much anecdotal data on that. And so we think there's something there-so. Well, perspectives of people on the Committee that we've now moved 150 basis points and that we're down into-you're into that range between 3 and 4, where most estimates of-many estimates of the neutral rate live in that 3 to 4 percent area. You're there now. You're above the median number for the Committee. But I think there are people on the Committee who have higher estimates of the neutral rate, and that's-you can argue these positions since it can't be directly observed, the neutral rate. So I think for some part of the Committee, it's time to maybe take a step back and see whether there really are downside risks to the labor market, or see whether, in fact, the growth-that the stronger growth that we're seeing is real. Ordinarily, the labor market is a better indicator of the momentum of the economy than the spending data. That's the allure. In this case, that gives a more downbeat read. So people just have-again, we've cut 50 more basis points in the last two meetings and there was a sense, from some, 'let's pause here' kind of thing, and a sense from others wanting to go ahead. But that's why I say differing views-strongly differing views. So if a cut might not be on the table for December because of lack of data, what is the other concerns then stem from? Well, everybody on the Committee is deeply committed to doing the right thing to achieve our goals: maximum employment and stable prices. You have differences on how to do that. And as I mentioned, some of that is different forecasts, but a lot of it is also different risk aversions to the two different variables, which is common through, through all federal reserves, they're-people just have different risk tolerances, let's say. So that leads you to people with disparate views. And so there's a growing chorus now of feeling like maybe this is where we should at least wait a cycle, something like that. That's what it is. It's-and, again, you've seen it in the September Summary of Economic Projections. You've seen this in the public remarks of FOMC participants. And now I'm telling you that's what-that's what you can expect in the minutes. And I'm just telling you that's what happened in the meeting. So the-I think there are two things affecting the job market, and one of them is just a dramatic reduction in the supply of new workers. So and that's two things-that's declining labor force participation, which is a cyclical thing, and then there's declining immigration-which is just a big policy change that actually began in the last Administration and has been accelerated now. So a big part of the whole story is that supply-side story. In addition, labor demand has declined, and so the labor-the unemployment rate has gone down, meaning that demand for workers has gone down a little more than supply. So that's what's going on, and-but it is mostly a supply function. It's mostly a function of the change in supply, I think and many people think. So the question then is, what does-what does our tool do, which supports demand? And so-and I would just say, when you're in a situation where job creation, if you adjust for likely overcounting in the way that BLS does its work, is pretty close to zero. So maximum employment doesn't, on a sustainable basis, doesn't-if you're making, creating zero jobs, if it's in equilibrium, if it's in balance, it's a pretty, as I said before, pretty curious balance. So I thought, and many of my colleagues thought-in fact, you've seen the last two meetings that it was appropriate for us to react by supporting demand with our rates. And we've done that-we've reduced so that rates are looser. I wouldn't say that they're accommodative right now, but they're meaningfully less tight than they were. And that should help so that at least the labor market doesn't get worse. It's a complicated situation, and some people argue that this is supply and we really can't affect it much with our tools, but others argue, as I do, that there is an effect from demand, and that we should use our tools to support the labor market when we see this happening. So the basic expectation is that there will be some additional increased inflation because it takes a while for tariffs to work their way through the production chain and finally get to consumers. And we see this now from the tariffs that were put in place now many months ago-we see those effects. But if you put tariffs in effect-and they've been coming into effect consistently in February, March, April, May-and that's all happening, so that'll continue to happen for some time, probably into the spring. These are not big increases, though. These are a tenth or so on inflation. They may be big increases on a particular product that's been tariffed, but, overall, these are fairly modest. I think some projections-we're at 2.8 percent inflation-you might get two or three more tenths, or four more tenths maybe. But then, as all the tariffs are in, they stop generating inflation. You've had a one-time price increase. As long as you're not-at least this is the theory, this is how we believe and hope that it will work out-once the last tariff is put on something, at that point it becomes a higher price level, but it stops going up, if you will, prices stop going up, they'll just be at that level. And then measured inflation will come back down to non-tariff inflation. And as I mentioned, non-tariff inflation is not so far from 2 percent now. Now, consumers are not interested in that story. Their prices are higher. More than that, the reason they're so unhappy about inflation is the inflation that we had in 2021, '22, '23-because you can say that prices aren't going up as much, but that doesn't mean people aren't feeling those higher prices from the inflation we had two or three years ago. And that's, I think, a large part of why the public-you sample people, inflation is still very much making people quite unhappy, even-and it's nice that prices are not going up as fast as they were, but they're still much higher than they were. And it'll take some time for that effect to wear off. As real incomes rise, it will feel better over time. But that's going to take time. You know, we don't look at any one asset price and say, 'Hey, that's wrong.' So we're here to-by lowering rates at the margin, that will support demand, and that will support more hiring. I think it would not be appropriate to just ignore or assume away the inflation issue. I wouldn't say that, no. We're looking at it carefully, we're paying close attention. I think we were-it was appropriate for us to be careful about this. We have upside risks to inflation, downside risks to employment. We're going to complete it in a timely way. I think the risk of higher, more persistent inflation has declined significantly since April. We're going to be monitoring this quite carefully and making sure that that is the case. I think it's certainly a factor supporting consumption right now.