today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. we also decided to initiate purchases of shorter-term Treasury securities solely for the purpose of maintaining an ample supply of reserves over time. the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to 3½ to 3¾ percent. we judged it appropriate at this meeting to lower our policy rate by ¼ percentage point. the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.4 percent at the end of 2026 and 3.1 percent at the end of 2027. we are well positioned to determine the extent and timing of additional adjustments based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. we will make our decisions on a meeting-by-meeting basis. the adjustments since September bring our policy within a broad range of estimates of neutral. we expect to see a lot more, but I'm just saying that the-what we get for, for example, CPI or for the, you know, household survey, we're going to look-we're going to look at that really carefully. the situation is that our two goals are a bit in tension. I don't think that a rate hike is anybody's base case at this point. So, of course, you know, a data set of two, now three, is not a big data set. We think there's an overstatement in these numbers by about 60,000, so that would be negative 20,000 per month. We announced that we're resuming reserve management purchases. We're in the high end of the range of neutral, I would say. We think we're well positioned to wait and see how the economy performs. If there are no new tariff announcements-and we don't know that, but let's assume there are no major new tariff announcements-inflation from goods should peak in the first quarter or so. So we're looking at the real economy and focusing on that. We want to-we're trying to keep inflation under control but also support the labor market and strong wages. We do think of those as likely to, in the current situation, as likely to be a one-time, you know, one-time price increase. There's a-it's very difficult to estimate job growth in real time. We think that that has persisted. we think that has persisted. we think it's about 60,000 a month, so 40,000 jobs could be negative 20. So it's probably part of the story. I don't know whether it will be. I really don't know. I think, you know, the top third accounts for way more than a third of the consumption, for example. I don't know that, you know, a 25 basis point decline in the federal funds rate is going to make much of a difference for people. I think the risk of inflation is pretty clear to see. I think it's a little quick to be saying it's generative AI. I want inflation to be under control, coming back down to 2 percent, and I want the labor market to be strong. I think it's sort of in the range of neutral. we've moved back our rate-our policy back down to where it's not-it's certainly not strongly restrictive at this point.