By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Committee were selected to serve until the selection of their successors at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2026: By unanimous vote, the Committee selected the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to execute transactions for the System Open Market Account (SOMA). By unanimous vote, the Committee voted to reaffirm without revision the FOMC Authorizations and Continuing Directives for Open Market Operations. Participants viewed the statement as having played an important role in building a common understanding among policymakers of the congressionally mandated monetary policy goals and of their monetary policy strategy. Participants expected that their discussions related to the framework review would continue at upcoming meetings. The manager noted that the modal policy rate path implied by options prices had not changed appreciably on net over the intermeeting period and was broadly consistent with a single quarter-point lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate taking place during 2025. The manager observed that usage of the ON RRP facility increased as expected at year-end but had declined on net over the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) rose at a solid pace in 2024. Total consumer price inflation-as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)-was 2.4 percent in November, down from its year-earlier pace of 2.7 percent. Average monthly gains for nonfarm payrolls over the fourth quarter were slightly higher than their third-quarter pace. The pace of foreign economic activity appeared to have moderated at the end of last year. Inflation abroad continued to ease. Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period. Participants viewed it as appropriate to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. Participants judged that it was appropriate to continue the process of reducing the Federal Reserve's securities holdings. Members agreed to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. Members agreed to continue reducing the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency MBS. The Committee is strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. Members agreed that in considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerged that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments.