today the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ½ percentage point anticipates that ongoing increases in the target rate for the federal funds rate will be appropriate we also decided to begin the process of reducing the size of our balance sheet we are on a path to move our policy rate expeditiously to more normal levels there's a broad sense on the Committee that additional 50-basis-point increases should be on the table at the next couple of meetings we will make our decisions meeting by meeting as we learn from incoming data and the evolving outlook for the economy we intend to significantly reduce the size of our balance sheet over time in a predictable manner we are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate we will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals we know we need to expeditiously move our policy rate up to ranges of more normal, neutral levels. we'll look at it that way. we're focused on doing the job we need to do on demand, and there's plenty to be done there. we have to be sure that inflation expectations remain anchored. we expect growth to be solid this year. we think we have a good chance to do it without a significant increase in unemployment. we'll do it as quickly and effectively as we can. we need to focus on doing our job. we see restoring price stability as absolutely essential for the country in coming years. we'll continue to do so. we won't hesitate to do it. we're moving there expeditiously, and we'll continue to do so. So I didn't-if I said "necessary," I meant to say "appropriate." We're not going to be erecting a high barrier for this. We're moving there expeditiously, and we'll continue to do so. The decision for about how high to go will be on the table to be made when we reach neutral. I expect we'll get there expeditiously, as I've mentioned. I would just stress how uncertain the effect is of shrinking the balance sheet. There won't be any clearer [estimates]. We know that it is part of returning to more normal, more neutral financial conditions. It's very important that they know that we know how painful it is and that we are working hard on fixing it. Monetary policy is working through expectations now, to a very large extent. As we raise interest rates, demand moderates: it moves down. That's how it works. But, ultimately, getting those, getting supply and demand back, you know, back in balance, is what gives us 2 percent inflation. I think it became clear to the Committee that we needed to adjust and adapt. We've been adapting. The Committee moved by the time of the December meeting to a median [in participants' 2022 projections] of three rate increases. And that process is going on. I do not, at this time, see the two sides of the mandate as in tension. You can see that there's a labor shortage. To do that, you've got to have price stability. We've had several of the longest expansions in U.S. history have been in the last 40 years, and that's because it's been a time of low inflation.