Today the Federal Open Market Committee kept interest rates near zero and maintained our asset purchases. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. We will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time. We will provide advance notice before making any changes to our purchases. The unemployment rate in June was 5.9 percent, and this figure understates the shortfall in employment. Inflation has increased notably and will likely remain elevated in coming months before moderating. The effects of the pandemic on the economy have continued to diminish, but risks to the economic outlook remain. We will use our tools to guide inflation back down to 2 percent if inflation expectations were to move up. We see ourselves as having some ground to cover to get there. We will continue to assess the economy's progress toward our goals. The Committee continued to discuss the progress made toward our goals since the Committee adopted its asset purchase guidance last December. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. we think that inflation should move down over time. we would use our tools to guide inflation back down to 2 percent. we're monitoring that very carefully, and we're prepared to use our tools as appropriate. we feel like we're going to be making good progress over the next-over the course of the next year, couple of years, really, toward maximum employment. we're looking at our asset purchases and judging what is right for the economy. we think we should see strong job creation moving forward. we have to deal with that. we're just going to have to watch. we have two mandates: maximum employment and price stability. we expect further progress. we will use our tools over time as appropriate to make sure that we do have inflation that averages 2 percent over time. we're not at full employment, but we are having high inflation. we will taper when we reach that goal. we're going to honor that commitment. we will know, you know, when we know. we expect it to be high for some time. we have to take seriously the risk case. we don't see that now. we think labor supply would be a healthy thing. we're working on a-on a new CRA proposal right now. we will provide more clarity on that as we go.