Today my colleagues on the FOMC and I kept interest rates near zero and maintained our sizable asset purchases. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. We will continue to increase our holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgage-backed securities by at least $40 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward our maximum-employment and price-stability goals. We will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. The economy is a long way from our employment and inflation goals, and it is likely to take some time for substantial further progress to be achieved. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. The judgment on how much to spend and in what way is really one for Congress and the Administration and not for the Fed. We don't rule it out as a theoretical matter, but we clearly look to macroprudential tools, regulatory tools, supervisory tools, other kinds of tools rather than monetary policy in addressing financial stability issues. we would see that as something likely to be transient and not to be very large. we're going to be patient. we'd like to see it run moderately above 2 percent for some time. we're going to remain accommodative until we actually see improvement in the economy. we think it's going to be a struggle. we have not won this yet. we think our policy stance is, is just right. we'll need to see actual progress. we think we're in the right place. we'll communicate clearly about it to the public. we're going to do everything we can to do that. we have been struggling with disinflationary forces for some time. I'm more concerned about that than about the possibility, which exists, of higher inflation. we expect that that'll be very good and, and very productive. we'll observe, you know, the long-standing practice of not talking about confidential discussions. we dropped 'in the medium term,' because, really, the risks are, are in the near term, frankly. there is good evidence to, to support a stronger economy in the second half of this year. we're going to look at the whole range of information, including economic activity, banking activity, the success in vaccination. we're going to be careful about this and, you know, move based on data, and all of the data, when we make that decision. we think that those price increases are unlikely to be sustained for, for all of those reasons. we do monitor pretty much all of the big financial markets pretty carefully. we do watch those things. we're very, very focused on that group of people with our policy and, and, and, you know, the way we look at the economy. we're going to a different economy. we're not going to say that we've reached maximum employment until we've reached maximum employment. we have a role to play. we're just going to do our part of the job. we need to finish the job. that is really the main thing about the economy, is, is getting the pandemic under control.