Today, we decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. The Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. We are committed to achieving a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation sustainably down to 2 percent over time, and to keeping policy restrictive until we are confident that inflation is on a path to that objective. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation as well as the balance of risks. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. We are attentive to recent data showing the resilience of economic growth and demand for labor. The process of getting inflation sustainably down to 2 percent has a long way to go. We will make decisions about the extent of additional policy firming and how long policy will remain restrictive based on the totality of the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We are not confident at this time that we've reached such a stance. We haven't made a decision about September. We will be looking at all those things as we make a decision in December. The Committee is proceeding carefully. You say in the statement you're looking to assess the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the extent to which you may need to hike additionally. We're monitoring that. But I would go back to-the bigger picture from our standpoint is, we've got a very strong economy, strong labor market, making progress on the labor market, making progress on inflation. We really-the best thing we can do for the U.S. is to restore price stability-fully restore price stability and not fail in that task and do it as quickly as possible, but also with the least damage. I think I still believe, and my colleagues for the most part I think still believe, that is likely to be true. It's very hard to know exactly what that might be. We're asking ourselves whether we've achieved a stance of policy that is sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. The Committee is not considering changing the pace of balance sheet runoff. We do think the banking system is quite resilient. We're looking at the full range of economic data, including financial conditions and all of those things that we look at. We'll take them seriously. The progress is probably going to come in lumps and be bumpy, but we're making progress. We put a proposal out for comment, is what we did. the expectation was that, that inflation by the end of next year, on a 12-month trailing basis, would be well into the 2s and the year after that, further into the 2s. we're committed to getting inflation back down to our target over time, and we will. the risks are getting more balanced. we think, and I think, that the risks are getting more balanced. we're in a place where those risks are getting closer to being in balance. we do talk about this. we may have underestimated the balance sheet strength of households and small businesses. the existence of this second set of factors at this time, which is the unwinding of the pandemic effects, that's what makes this cycle unique. the price of oil has really not reacted very much so far to this. the war in Ukraine did have, immediately, very significant macroeconomic implications because of the connection to commodities.