Today the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ¾ percentage point. We anticipate that ongoing increases will be appropriate. We are continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet. The median projection in the SEP for the unemployment rate rises to 4.4 percent at the end of next year. Inflation remains well above our 2 percent longer-run goal. We will keep at it until we are confident the job is done. We are taking forceful and rapid steps to moderate demand so that it comes into better alignment with supply. Restoring price stability will likely require maintaining a restrictive policy stance for some time. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting and communicate our thinking as clearly as possible. The historical record cautions strongly against prematurely loosening policy. So we make one decision per meeting, and the decision we made today was to raise the federal funds rate by 75 [basis points]. we're committed to getting to a restrictive level for the federal funds rate and getting there pretty quickly we need to continue, and we can-keep doing these, and we did today-do another large increase as we approach the level that we think we need to get to. we're still discovering what that level is. we're not considering that decision, and I don't expect that we will any time soon. we think we need to have softer labor market conditions as well. we need to get inflation behind us. we're going to have to get supply and demand back in alignment, and that's going to take tight monetary policy for a period of time. we want to act aggressively now and get this job done and keep at it until it's done. we want to avoid that. to get there, we're going to have to get supply and demand back in alignment, and that's going to take tight monetary policy for a period of time. the deceleration in housing prices that we're seeing should help bring sort of prices more closely in line with rents and other housing market fundamentals, and that's a good thing. we probably, in the housing market, have to go through a correction to get back to that place. I think that shelter inflation is going to remain high for some time. you've talked about the need to get real rates into positive territory, and you said earlier that policy is just moving into that territory now. the path that we actually execute will be enough. It will be enough to restore price stability.