Today, the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. At today's meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing the target range to 5 to 5¼ percent. We will take a data-dependent approach in determining the extent to which additional policy firming may be appropriate. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. In light of these uncertain headwinds, along with the monetary policy restraint we have put in place, our future policy actions will depend on how events unfold. We are also continuing to reduce our securities holdings. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. economy slowed significantly last year, with real GDP rising at a below-trend pace of 0.9 percent. The labor market remains very tight. Inflation remains well above our longer-run goal of 2 percent. We are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation pose-poses to both sides of our mandate. We will make that determination meeting by meeting, based on the totality of incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. we've been raising interest rates, and that raises the price of credit, and that, in a sense, restricts credit in the economy, working through the price mechanism. the assessment of, of the extent to which additional policy firming may be appropriate is going to be an ongoing one, meeting by meeting we're going to need data to accumulate on that-not an assessment that we've made, as-that, that would mean we think we've reached that point. we thought that this rate hike, along with the meaningful change in, in our policy statement, was the right way to balance that. we're always going to have 2 percent as our, our target. we're looking for inflation going down to 2 percent over time. we have a goal of getting to 2 percent. we think it's going to take some time. we have to balance the risk of not doing enough and, and not getting inflation under control against the risk of maybe slowing down economic activity too much. I think it's still possible. we will make our best assessment, and that's what we think. we think we'll have to-demand will have to weaken a little bit, and labor market conditions, conditions may have to soften a bit more to begin to see progress there. we've raised rates by 5 percentage points. we have to factor all of that in and make our assessment of whether our policy stance is sufficiently restrictive. if that forecast is broadly right, it would not be appropriate to cut rates, and we won't cut rates. we looked at that very carefully, as you would imagine. it doesn't seem to have had any effect overall on the overnight repo facility. I don't really think we should be-we shouldn't even be talking about a world in which the U.S. doesn't pay its bills. I think the only thing that I'm really focused on is to understand what went wrong, what happened, and identify what we need to do to address that. we will continue to very carefully monitor what's going on in the banking system, and we'll factor that assessment into our decisions in an important way, going forward. I fully recognize that we made mistakes. support for the 25 basis point rate increase was very strong across the board. people did talk about pausing, but not so much at this meeting. we need to strengthen both supervision and regulations for banks of this size.