Market participants did not materially change their macroeconomic outlooks and continued to interpret data made available over the intermeeting period as consistent with a resilient economy. Investors' expectations for the path of the policy rate, whether market based or survey based, were little changed, on net, over the period. Market participants and respondents to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) generally expected a 25 basis point reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate at the December FOMC meeting, and the modal outlook from the survey as well as from options pricing implied two additional rate cuts next year. The manager attributed the decline in inflation compensation at shorter tenors to lower energy prices as well as a reassessment by some market participants of the likely effect of tariffs on near-term inflation. Broad equity price indexes were volatile but changed little, on net, over the intermeeting period. The manager noted that capital expenditures on equipment and infrastructure related to AI by a set of large technology companies accelerated this year and that these firms were increasingly relying on debt to finance such expenditures. The trade-weighted dollar index was little changed over the intermeeting period. Many of these forecasters expected a larger reduction in policy rates in the U.S. than in other advanced-economy jurisdictions, though their confidence in this view appeared to diminish somewhat in light of the resilience of the U.S. The manager noted that money market conditions continued to tighten over the intermeeting period and that the staff assessed that conditions were consistent with the level of reserves having declined to the ample region. Rates on Treasury repurchase agreements (repo) remained relatively elevated and volatile over the intermeeting period. The manager noted that the correlation between this spread and the level of reserve balances had risen notably over the past couple of months and that the EFFR had moved up faster than it had during the previous episode of balance sheet runoff. Consistent with elevated repo rates, usage of overnight reverse repo operations remained low, while both the frequency and volume of standing repo operations increased over the intermeeting period. Some other key indicators of reserve ampleness, such as the share of payments by banks occurring later in the day and the share of domestic banks borrowing in the federal funds market, also pointed to ample reserve conditions. The manager next discussed the expected trajectory of key components of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Over the next several months, seasonal fluctuations in nonreserve liabilities were projected to lead to significant declines in reserves at the end of December, in late January, and especially in mid-to-late April if securities holdings in the System Open Market Account (SOMA) were to remain unchanged. The manager noted that the projected fall in reserves in April caused by tax inflows to the Treasury General Account (TGA)-which is a Federal Reserve liability-was particularly large and thus judged that reserves were likely to fall below the ample range if the size of the SOMA portfolio were to remain unchanged. In light of this projected decline in reserves as well as recent developments in money markets, the manager recommended that the Committee consider starting reserve management purchases (RMPs) this month to maintain an ample level of reserves on an ongoing basis. Because of the substantial projected decline in reserves in mid-to-late April, the manager judged that it would be prudent to start RMPs soon, maintain a somewhat elevated pace of net purchases until then, and then decrease the monthly pace substantially thereafter. Respondents to the Desk survey expected RMPs to begin soon. Over one-third of respondents expected RMPs to be announced at this meeting and begin by next month, and most respondents anticipated them to begin before the end of the first quarter of 2026. While the estimated size of expected purchases varied considerably across respondents, on average, respondents anticipated net purchases of about $220 billion over the first 12 months of purchases. The manager then turned to a discussion of standing repo operations and the essential role they play in supporting the implementation of monetary policy. While usage of these operations had increased recently, there had been days when a large volume of repo trades occurred well above the operations' minimum bid rate, suggesting reluctance by some potential participants to engage in standing repo operations. Market outreach suggested that this reluctance reflected misperceptions about the intended purpose of standing repo operations and that the effectiveness of these operations could be enhanced by Federal Reserve communications that explicitly clarified that the purpose of the operations is to support monetary policy implementation. Market participants also suggested that reluctance to use standing repo operations reflected in part specific operational features, and they offered a number of suggestions to enhance the effectiveness of the operations, such as allowing them to be centrally cleared and eliminating the aggregate limit of $500 billion per day. Given the importance of standing repo operations for monetary policy implementation, the manager proposed to clarify their intended role in official communications, convey the expectation that they would be used when economically sensible, and eliminate their aggregate limit. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. Participants discussed developments in money markets and whether starting RMPs was warranted to maintain reserves at levels consistent with the Committee's ample-reserves framework laid out in its Statement Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation and Balance Sheet Normalization. With the continued increases in the spreads between money market interest rates and administered rates, as well as some other indicators of tightening money market conditions, participants judged that reserve balances had declined to ample levels. Accordingly, participants assessed that it was appropriate to begin RMPs and initiate purchases of shorter-term Treasury securities to maintain an ample supply of reserves over time. The discussion was preceded by staff presentations. The staff emphasized that a range of levels of reserve balances was consistent with ample and presented indicators showing that money market conditions pointed to reserves being within the ample range. In particular, the spreads of the EFFR and of other money market rates to the interest rate on reserve balances had increased relatively quickly since mid-September. Additionally, several other indicators of liquidity in short-term funding markets, including the volatility of repo rates and their sensitivity to Treasury coupon issuance, pointed to reserves being within the ample range. The staff emphasized the role that standing repo operations had played in ensuring that the federal funds rate remained within its target range, even on days of elevated demand for nonreserve liabilities. The staff also noted the implications of reserves varying within the ample range for volatility and market functioning in money markets, the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, and the use of standing repo operations. The staff noted that maintaining ample reserves over time would require the SOMA security portfolio to expand to accommodate trend growth in the demand for reserves and nonreserve liabilities. In addition, under the ample-reserves framework, the size of the SOMA portfolio would need to be sufficient to accommodate significant seasonal variation in the demand for nonreserve liabilities, such as that driven by fluctuations in TGA balances. The staff presented options for how the Desk could structure RMPs to maintain an ample supply of reserves. They noted the benefits of granting the Desk flexibility to adjust the sizes of RMPs in anticipation of or in response to swings in reserve demand and the demand for nonreserve liabilities. The staff also noted that, consistent with the goal of returning to a primarily Treasury portfolio expressed in the Committee's Principles for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet and a preference to shift the SOMA portfolio composition toward that of Treasury securities outstanding, RMPs could be conducted primarily in Treasury bills. Participants agreed that recent money market conditions pointed to reserves being within the ample range and that beginning RMPs would be prudent to maintain a supply of ample reserves. A couple of participants remarked that the recent increase in the spread between the EFFR and the interest rate on reserve balances had been faster than during the Federal Reserve's 2017-19 runoff experience, and a couple of participants observed that triparty repo rates had been averaging somewhat above the interest rate on reserve balances. Participants expressed their preferences for purchases to be in Treasury bills so that the SOMA portfolio composition would begin to shift toward that of Treasury securities outstanding, though no decision was made on the composition of the portfolio in the long run. Policymakers generally emphasized the importance of communicating that RMPs would be made solely to ensure interest rate control and smooth market functioning and had no implications for the stance of monetary policy. Participants generally agreed that providing the Desk flexibility to adjust the size and timing of RMPs was important because of the significant variation in the demand for Federal Reserve liabilities and the uncertainty surrounding projections of this demand. When discussing how to structure RMPs in light of this variation, several participants emphasized that they preferred to front-load purchases so that the total level of reserves supplied to the market would be enough to manage large anticipated seasonal swings in nonreserve liabilities without having to rely on standing repo operations. Some other participants, however, preferred to limit balance sheet size by conducting RMPs closer to periods of elevated demand for nonreserve liabilities and relying more on standing repo operations to damp upward pressure on rates. Several participants noted that aligning variation in SOMA Treasury bill holdings with variation in nonreserve liabilities would insulate reserve supply from TGA changes, citing research by the Federal Reserve staff. Participants also discussed the role of standing repo operations and commented on their importance for interest rate control in the ample-reserves regime. Some participants emphasized their preference that standing repo operations play a more active role in rate control, with material usage during periods of elevated pressures in money markets. A couple of participants added that effective standing repo operations may allow for a smaller balance sheet on average. Several participants preferred to rely more on RMPs to maintain an ample level of reserves. Various participants noted that a more precise definition of "ample" would help clarify the Committee's intentions in implementing an ample-reserves framework. A few participants noted the difficulties of aiming to target an appropriate level of reserves because of the potential shifts in reserve demand. Some participants offered a view that an ample-reserves definition should focus on the level of money market rates in relation to the interest rate on reserve balances, with a few of those participants highlighting that such an approach would avoid some of the challenges of targeting a particular level of reserves given potential shifts in reserve demand. A couple of participants expressed the view that a definition of "ample reserves" that resulted in a larger supply of reserves than necessary to implement the Committee's framework could lead to excessive risk-taking by leveraged investors. Members agreed that available indicators suggested that economic activity had been expanding at a moderate pace. They also agreed that job gains had slowed this year and that the unemployment rate had edged up through September. Members observed that more recent indicators were consistent with these developments. They noted that inflation had moved up since earlier in the year and remained somewhat elevated. They agreed that the Committee was attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate and that downside risks to employment had risen in recent months. In support of the Committee's goals and in light of the shift in the balance of risks, nine members agreed to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point to 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent. two preferred to leave the target range unchanged Members agreed that, in considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. All members agreed that the postmeeting statement should relay this judgment about additional rate adjustments and that it also should affirm their strong commitment both to supporting maximum employment and to returning inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee would continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. They would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerged that could impede the attainment. Members also agreed to remove the aggregate limit on standing repo operations. The Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. In support of its goals and in light of the shift in the balance of risks, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point to 3-1/2 to 3-3/4 percent. The Committee is strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. The Committee judges that reserve balances have declined to ample levels and will initiate purchases of shorter-term Treasury securities as needed to maintain an ample supply of reserves on an ongoing basis. the other preferred to lower the target range 1/2 percentage point