Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. The Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. We believe that our policy rate is likely at its peak for this tightening cycle and that, if the economy evolves broadly as expected, it will likely be appropriate to begin dialing back policy restraint at some point this year. We're prepared to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for longer if appropriate. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. We're highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we're strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. We need to see more evidence that sort of confirms what we think we're seeing and that tells us that we are on-gives us confidence that we're on, on a path to-a sustainable path down to 2 percent inflation. We're not looking for that. That's not something we're looking for. We do have a healthy set of differences, and I think that's actually essential for making good policy. We think goods inflation will probably-it's been giving a lot of disinflation to the effort-and probably that declines over time, but it may well have some, some more time to run. We're not declaring victory at all at this point. We think we have a ways to go. We do expect growth to moderate. We're not looking for inflation to tap the 2 percent base once. We're going to be data dependent. We'll have to deal with that. We're going to be looking at this meeting by meeting. We're just going to be reacting to the data. The economy is broadly normalizing, and so is the labor market. The labor market is strong. We're not targeting housing price inflation, the cost of housing, or any of those things. So when we think about, you know-our, our statutory goals are maximum employment and price stability, and that's what we're targeting. My response is what I started with, which is that our, our job-the job Congress has given us is price stability and maximum employment. So I would start by saying that balance sheet runoff so far has gone very well. At this meeting, we did have some discussion of the balance sheet, and we're planning to begin in-depth discussions of balance sheet issues at our next meeting in March. I'm, I'm not in a position to put a number on it. We're going to do-we'll update our, our inflation forecasts at the next meeting. If we get very strong inflation data and it, it kicks back up, then it'll-then we'll go slower or later or both. We're setting policy based on the totality of, of the data. I personally find it very helpful in understanding what's going on. I mean, if you-if you look back at the last-not this Beige Book, but the one before, it was more-there was a lot of 'slower activity.' I'm not so worried about that. We don't have a growth mandate.