Market participants left their macroeconomic outlooks little changed, and they appeared to continue to interpret data made available over the period as consistent with a resilient economy. In line with the stable outlook, investors' expectations for the path of the policy rate, whether market based or survey based, were virtually unchanged over the period. Investors expected a 25 basis point lowering in the target range for the federal funds rate at the October meeting and another 25 basis point lowering at the December meeting, although some uncertainty around the December meeting was evident in responses to the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations. The manager noted that rising stock prices were consistent with expectations for continued robust growth in earnings. A couple of well-publicized bankruptcies, as well as some credit losses reported by some banks, led to increased investor scrutiny of credit markets, with investors reportedly closely tracking the riskiest segments of credit markets for signs of weakening and noting the possibility of future losses. The manager highlighted that recent changes in money market conditions indicated that the level of reserves could be approaching ample. Rates on Treasury repurchase agreements (repo) moved notably higher relative to the interest rate on reserve balances (IORB). The manager noted this increase was widespread, with many participants paying higher rates in the federal funds market regardless of their reasons for borrowing. The manager recommended that the Committee consider stopping the runoff of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio soon. Continuing runoff would imply that volatility in money markets likely would continue to intensify. He noted that excessive money market rate volatility would pose risks to both the control of the policy rate and the stability of funding in the repo market, which in turn could affect the stability of the U.S. Treasury market. The manager also noted that further reductions in the size of the portfolio may prove short lived because they would bring forward the time when the Desk would need to restart purchases of securities to maintain ample reserves. In the absence of material take-up at the ON RRP facility, and assuming balance sheet runoff would end, the staff estimated that reserves would continue to gradually decline amid projected increases in other Federal Reserve liabilities. The manager noted that the Desk would begin using a new trading platform in the near future to conduct its repo and reverse repo operations, with other operations to follow in coming quarters. The staff provided background on the SRF, including potential benefits and costs of central clearing for SRF transactions. The main potential benefit mentioned was greater effectiveness of the SRF in helping to maintain control of the federal funds rate. Most participants commented on the potential for central clearing of SRF transactions. Among those who commented, almost all noted that the SRF supports the effective implementation and transmission of monetary policy as well as smooth market functioning, and that central clearing of SRF transactions could improve the effectiveness of the facility. Participants who commented generally supported further study of central clearing of SRF transactions. The FOMC's "Plans for Reducing the Size of the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet," announced in May 2022, indicated that the Committee intended to cease balance sheet runoff when reserve balances are judged to be somewhat above a level consistent with ample reserves. In addition, money market conditions had tightened recently, which suggested that reserve balances may be moving closer to ample. Participants discussed whether to stop balance sheet runoff soon and what the maturity composition of the SOMA Treasury portfolio (SOMA portfolio) should be in the longer run. Consequently, participants agreed that their discussions at this meeting would help inform the Committee's future decisions regarding the long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio. The staff reviewed the composition of the SOMA portfolio and provided some considerations regarding the SOMA portfolio's long-run composition, including issues related to market functioning, potential macroeconomic implications, interactions with the Treasury's management of the federal debt, monetary policy implementation, and the Federal Reserve's net income. Participants also agreed that a larger share of Treasury bills than the current portfolio allocation would be desirable in the long run. Many participants indicated that a greater share of Treasury bills could provide the Federal Reserve with more flexibility to accommodate changes in the demand for reserves or changes in nonreserve liabilities and thereby help to maintain an ample level of reserves. Several participants also noted that a greater share of Treasury bills could increase flexibility for future monetary policy accommodation without having to raise the level of reserves. Some participants indicated that during a transition phase, purchases to reach a larger share of Treasury bills in the SOMA portfolio could reduce the availability of short-term Treasury securities to the private sector and potentially affect market functioning. A couple of other participants noted the absence of market functioning problems in past episodes when purchases focused on Treasury bills. A number of participants noted that the expected pace of paydowns of agency securities in the near term was around only $15 billion to $20 billion per month, and that redirecting these proceeds into Treasury bills once balance sheet runoff ended likely would not adversely affect market functioning. Overall, most participants favored a long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio that matched the composition of Treasury securities outstanding, indicating that a proportional allocation would provide enough flexibility and may be simpler to communicate. Some participants indicated that they favored a larger-than-proportional share of Treasury bills, citing the benefits of having even greater flexibility than available under a proportional allocation. Various participants noted that it was not necessary to decide on the long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio at this time, as the shift toward a long-run composition would take place over a number of years. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that growth of real gross domestic product (GDP) had moderated over the first half of the year. Information on the labor market was limited by the federal government shutdown; however, available indicators were consistent with a continued gradual cooling in the labor market without any evidence of a sharp deterioration. Consumer price inflation had moved up since earlier in the year and remained somewhat elevated. Total consumer price inflation-as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)-was estimated to have been 2.8 percent in September based on data from the consumer price index. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was also estimated to have been 2.8 percent in September. These estimates implied that total PCE price inflation had risen 0.5 percentage point relative to a year ago and that core PCE inflation was unchanged from its year-earlier rate. Real GDP posted a strong gain in the second quarter following a decline in the first quarter, although the average increase over the first half of the year was slower than the average pace seen over 2024. Real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)-which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal of underlying economic momentum than GDP-had risen faster than GDP over the first half but had also slowed relative to its 2024 rate of increase. PDFP growth appeared to have continued at a solid pace in the third quarter, though the government shutdown had reduced the amount of data that was available to gauge third-quarter economic activity. Available data suggested that net exports positively contributed to GDP growth in the third quarter. After falling sharply in the second quarter and then rising somewhat in July, real imports of goods appeared to have resumed falling in August. real goods exports appeared to have declined moderately in August after having increased modestly in the first half of the year. The government shutdown was expected to reduce GDP growth for as long as it continued, with a corresponding boost to growth once the government reopened and government production and purchases returned to normal levels. Recent activity indicators suggested that foreign real GDP growth slowed in the third quarter relative to the first half of the year. Growth in China softened amid fading fiscal stimulus and a persistent property-sector downturn, while indicators in Europe continued to point to subdued activity. Slower foreign growth was driven in part by weaker exports due to reduced U.S. demand and lower investment due to elevated uncertainty, likely reflecting the effects of the U.S. Growth in some foreign economies, especially in Mexico and parts of Asia, was supported by continued strong demand for high-tech products, originating primarily from the U.S. Headline inflation was near central banks' targets in many foreign economies, aided by declines in global energy prices. However, core inflation remained elevated in some economies, notably Brazil, Mexico, and the U.K. By contrast, inflation in China continued to be subdued. In response to lackluster economic activity, some foreign central banks-including the Bank of Canada, the Sveriges Riksbank, and the Bank of Mexico-cut their policy rates further over the intermeeting period. Participants generally expected inflation to remain somewhat elevated in the near term before moving gradually to 2 percent. Many participants expected some additional pickup in core goods inflation over the next few quarters, driven in part by further pass-through of tariffs to firms' pricing. Participants generally noted that most measures of short-term inflation expectations had eased somewhat from their peaks earlier in the year and that most survey-based and market-based measures of longer-term inflation have shown little net change since the end of last year, which suggested that longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored. Participants observed that the data available before the government shutdown indicated that job gains had slowed this year and that the unemployment rate had edged up but remained low through August. Participants generally expected conditions to soften gradually in coming months and the labor market to remain less dynamic than earlier in the year, with businesses reluctant to add workers but also hesitant to lay off employees. Participants noted that available indicators suggested that economic activity appeared to have been expanding at a moderate pace, although a number of participants observed that the lack of government-provided spending data since the shutdown made it challenging to gauge the more recent strength of overall activity. Many participants highlighted strong investment in technology, particularly spending related to AI and data centers. Participants generally judged that uncertainty about the economic outlook remained elevated. In their discussion of financial stability, a number of participants pointed to some recent failures of firms involved in nonbank credit activity. Participants assessed that more recent indicators were consistent with these developments. Many participants suggested that, under their economic outlooks, it would likely be appropriate to keep the target range unchanged for the rest of the year. In support of the Committee's goals and in light of the shift in the balance of risks, almost all members decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point to 3-3/4 to 4 percent. Members agreed that, in considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. All members agreed that the postmeeting statement should affirm their strong commitment both to supporting maximum employment and to returning inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. The Committee decided to conclude the reduction of its aggregate securities holdings on December 1. In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. Voting for this action: Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. Williams, Vice Chair; Michael S. Barr; Michelle W. Bowman; Susan M. Collins; Lisa D. Cook; Austan D. Goolsbee; Philip N. Jefferson; Alberto G. Musalem; and Christopher J. Stephen I. Miran preferred to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/2 percentage point at this meeting Jeffrey R. Schmid preferred no change to the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting