Today, the FOMC decided to take another step in reducing the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. At today's meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, to 4½ percent to 4¾ percent. We are not on any preset course. If the economy remains strong and inflation is not sustainably moving toward 2 percent, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can move more quickly. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. We're trying to steer between the risk of moving too quickly and perhaps undermining our progress on inflation or moving too slowly and allowing the labor market to weaken too much. We think that's where we are, but that's the question we're going to be asking in September and, and in other meetings. We don't fill out a-we don't fill out an SEP, and I can't characterize one that wasn't filled out today. We have a very large economy. Many things are affecting it at any given time. We're not doing that now, and all that will take time, and it will be very much regular order when we do do that. we think that even with today's cut, policy is still restrictive. we judged in September that it was appropriate to begin to recalibrate our policy stance to reflect this progress, and today's decision is really another step in that process. we are prepared to adjust our assessments of the appropriate pace and destination as the outlook evolves. we think that the right way to find neutral, if you will, is carefully, patiently. we don't want the labor market to soften much from here. fiscal-federal government's fiscal path-fiscal policy is on an unsustainable path. the level of our debt relative to the economy is not unsustainable. we have to avoid that risk. we're going to move carefully as this goes on so that we can increase the chances that we will get it right. we would be concerned if we saw-if we thought we saw longer-term inflation expectations anchoring at a higher level. Again, the idea is to maintain support, the strength that we have in the labor market and in the economy, but also with somewhat less restrictive but still restrictive policy, enable further progress toward our 2 percent inflation goal. We're going to move carefully as, as this goes on so that, you know, we can increase the chances that we will get it right. So we would be concerned if we saw-if we thought we saw longer-term inflation expectations anchoring at a higher level. But, overall, expectations seem to be-and really have throughout this-in a place that's consistent with 2 percent inflation. Inflation has come way down. The economy is still strong here. Wages are moving up but, but at a sustainable level. So that's our-that is actually our plan. I wouldn't rule anything out or in that far away. But that's certainly not, not our plan. We're not in a world where we can afford to rule, rule things out a full year in advance. We do not think it would be appropriate to deliberately undershoot.