Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. The Committee decided at today's meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. We believe that our policy rate is likely at its peak for this tightening cycle and that, if the economy evolves broadly as expected, it will likely be appropriate to begin dialing back policy restraint at some point this year. The Committee does not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably down toward 2 percent. We are prepared to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for longer, if appropriate. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. We are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. So I think that-sorry, say your last part of your question again. But that's really going to depend on the incoming data. So you can have that if you have a continued supply-side activity that we had last year with-both with supply chains and also with, with growth in the size of the labor force. No, not all by itself. So we think-there are many different financial conditions indicators, and you can kind of, you know, see different answers to that question. But, ultimately, we do think that financial conditions are weighing on economic activity, and we think you see that in-a great place to see it is in the labor market, where you've seen demand cooling off a little bit from the extremely high levels. So I see the Committee looking at the two months of data and asking the same question you're asking and saying we're just going to have to see what the data show. We consistently said that. We're going to let the data show. It is very important for everyone that we serve that we do get inflation sustainably down. We place a tremendous amount of importance on our engagements with Congress and always treat them with great respect. We listen, again, because we're talking to the people who, in our system of government, have oversight over our activity. We're a very consensus-oriented organization, and we do try to achieve consensus and, ideally, unanimity. We all monitor the labor market very, very carefully. The extreme imbalances that we saw in the early parts of the pandemic recovery have mostly been resolved. You're seeing high job growth. You're seeing strong wage growth, but wage growth is gradually moderating down to more sustainable levels. We want to avoid any, any kind of that turbulence. We will always be watching the banking system for similar signs, though. We're going to be monitoring carefully money market conditions and asking ourselves whether they-what they're telling us about reserves. We're not trying for that. we're going to be looking at what these-what's happening in money markets, in particular-a bunch of different indicators, including the ones I mentioned, to tell us when we're getting close. we want more confidence that inflation is coming down sustainably toward 2 percent. we'd like to see, you know, continuing gradual movement of wage increases at still high levels but back down to levels that are more sustainable over time. I think, generally speaking, it does go in the direction of saying, yes, it's appropriate for us to be careful as we approach this question. we're trying to stay in the frontiers of what's going on in digital finance. we need to be knowledgeable about all that. we haven't proposed-we haven't come to a conclusion that we should propose, or anything like that, that Congress consider legislation to authorize a digital dollar. I think it's generally broadly helped and made things better. we need to see more evidence to build our confidence that inflation is moving down sustainably toward our 2 percent goal. we would certainly love to get great inflation data.