Participants continued their discussion related to the ongoing review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices (framework review). They observed that they had made important progress toward revising the Committee's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy (consensus statement). Participants discussed potential revisions to the consensus statement that would incorporate lessons learned from economic developments since the 2020 framework review and would be designed to be robust across a wide range of economic conditions. Participants noted that the Committee was close to finalizing changes to the consensus statement and would do so in the near future. The manager turned first to a review of financial market developments. Over the intermeeting period, the expected path of the policy rate and longer-term Treasury yields were little changed, equity prices increased, credit spreads narrowed, and the dollar depreciated slightly. The manager noted that markets continued to be attentive to news related to trade policy, though markets' reaction to incoming information on this topic was more restrained than in April and May. Against this backdrop, the manager reported that the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations (Desk survey) indicated that the median respondent's expectations regarding both real gross domestic product (GDP) growth and inflation were roughly unchanged. The manager turned next to policy rate expectations, which held steady over the intermeeting period, consistent with a relatively stable macroeconomic outlook. The median modal path of the federal funds rate, as given in the Desk survey, was unchanged from the corresponding path in the June survey and continued to indicate expectations of two 25 basis point rate cuts in the second half of this year. Market-based measures of policy rate expectations were also little changed and indicated expectations of one to two 25 basis point rate cuts by the end of the year. The manager then discussed developments in Treasury securities markets and market-based measures of inflation compensation. Nominal Treasury yields were little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period, consistent with the lack of appreciable changes in the macroeconomic outlook and in policy rate expectations. Perceived risks associated with trade policy developments contributed to an increase in near-term market measures of inflation compensation, while longer-horizon measures of inflation compensation rose more modestly. The manager then turned to market pricing of risky assets. The increases in equity prices and narrowing of credit spreads suggested that markets assessed that the overall U.S. economy was remaining resilient; still, financial markets appeared to be making distinctions between individual corporations on the basis of the size and quality of their earnings. Valuations of the S&P 500 index continued to move above long-run average levels, mostly driven by optimism about the largest technology firms' scope to benefit from the further adoption of artificial intelligence (AI). However, valuations of an index of smaller-capitalization firms, although higher over the intermeeting period, remained below their historical averages. Regarding foreign exchange developments, the manager noted that the broad trade-weighted dollar index had continued to depreciate since the previous FOMC meeting but at a slower pace than in recent intermeeting periods. At the same time, the manager noted that correlations between the dollar and its fundamental drivers had normalized recently. The available data continued to suggest relative stability in foreign holdings of U.S. The manager turned next to money markets. Unsecured overnight rates remained stable over the intermeeting period. Rates on Treasury repurchase agreements (repo) were somewhat higher than the low levels seen in the previous intermeeting period. The manager observed that two factors contributed to this slight increase: the normal upward pressure on money market rates associated with the June quarter-end; and the rise in net Treasury bill issuance amid the rebuilding of the Treasury General Account (TGA) balance following the increase in the debt limit in early July. On June 30, as market rates climbed modestly above the standing repo facility's (SRF) minimum bid rate at quarter-end, there was material usage of the facility, with counterparties borrowing a bit more than $11 billion, the highest utilization to date. The manager also discussed the projected trajectory of various Federal Reserve liabilities. With increased Treasury bill issuance associated with the rebuilding of the TGA balance likely to result in a rise in money market rates, take-up at the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility was expected to decline to low levels relatively soon. Market indicators continued to suggest that reserves remained abundant; however, ongoing System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio runoff, a substantial expected increase in the TGA balance, and the depletion of the ON RRP facility were together likely to bring about a sustained decline in reserves for the first time since portfolio runoff started in June 2022. Against this backdrop, the staff would continue to monitor indicators of reserve conditions closely. The manager also noted that there would be times-such as quarter-ends, tax dates, and days associated with large settlements of Treasury securities-when reserves were likely to dip temporarily to even lower levels. At those times, utilization of the SRF would likely support the smooth functioning of money markets and the implementation of monetary policy. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real GDP expanded at a tepid pace in the first half of the year. The unemployment rate continued to be low, and consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated. Disinflation appeared to have stalled, with tariffs putting upward pressure on goods price inflation. Total consumer price inflation-as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)-was estimated to have been 2.5 percent in June, based on the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was estimated to have been 2.7 percent in June. Both inflation rates were similar to their year-earlier levels. Recent data indicated that labor market conditions remained solid. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent in June, down 0.1 percentage point from May. The participation rate edged down 0.1 percentage point in June, and the employment-to-population ratio was unchanged. Total nonfarm payroll gains were solid in June, though the pace of private payroll gains stepped down noticeably. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers was 1.1 in June and remained within the narrow range seen over the past year. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.7 percent over the 12 months ending in June, slightly lower than the year-earlier pace. According to the advance estimate, real GDP rose in the second quarter after declining in the first quarter. Growth of real private domestic final purchases-which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum-slowed in the second quarter, as a step-down in investment growth offset faster PCE growth. After exerting a substantial negative drag on GDP growth in the first quarter, net exports made a large positive contribution in the second quarter. Real imports of goods and services declined sharply, likely reflecting the aftereffects of the substantial front-loading of imports recorded in the first quarter ahead of anticipated tariff hikes. By contrast, exports of goods declined at a more moderate pace, and exports of services rose further. Abroad, activity indicators pointed to a slowdown of foreign economic growth in the second quarter, as the transitory boost due to the front-loading of U.S. imports earlier in the year faded. Of note, monthly GDP data through May indicated that economic activity contracted in Canada. China's GDP, however, continued to expand at a moderate pace in the second quarter, supported by solid domestic spending. Headline inflation rates were near targets in most foreign economies, held down by past declines in oil prices and fading wage pressures following a tightening in monetary policy stances over the past few years. However, core inflation remained somewhat elevated in some foreign economies. Over the intermeeting period, several foreign central banks, such as the Bank of Mexico and the Swiss National Bank, further eased their monetary policy stance, while others, such as the Bank of England and the European Central Bank, held their policy rates steady. In their communications, foreign central banks continued to emphasize that U.S. trade policies and accompanying uncertainty have started to weigh on economic activity in their economies. Over the intermeeting period, both the market-implied expected path of the federal funds rate over the next year and nominal Treasury yields were little changed, on net, while real yields declined. Inflation compensation rose across the maturity spectrum-particularly at shorter horizons-reflecting, at least in part, perceived risks associated with trade policy developments. Broad equity price indexes increased and credit spreads tightened, consistent with improving risk sentiment attributed in part to easing geopolitical tensions as well as stronger-than-expected economic activity. Credit spreads for all rating categories except the lowest-quality bonds narrowed to exceptionally low levels relative to their historical distribution. The VIX-a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility-declined moderately to just below the median of its historical distribution. Over the intermeeting period, news about trade policy interpreted as positive by investors together with some easing of geopolitical tensions in the Middle East led to moderate increases in foreign equity prices and longer-term yields. The broad dollar index was little changed on net. Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained orderly over the intermeeting period while displaying typical quarter-end dynamics. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which became law on July 4, ended the previous debt issuance suspension period, after which the TGA balance increased from $313 billion on July 3 to an expected $500 billion by the end of July. Rates in secured markets were, on average, somewhat elevated relative to the average over the previous intermeeting period, owing in part to quarter-end effects. Although upward pressure on repo rates was modest at quarter-end, take-up at the SRF was $11.1 billion on June 30-its highest level since the inception of the facility-as the addition of an early settlement option seemed to encourage participation. Average usage of the ON RRP facility was little changed over the intermeeting period. In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs facing businesses, households, and municipalities eased moderately but remained elevated relative to post-Global Financial Crisis (GFC) average levels. Yields on both corporate bonds and leveraged loans declined modestly, while interest rates on small business loans were little changed on net. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages were little changed and remained near the top of the post-GFC historical distribution. Interest rates on new auto loans and for new credit card offers have fluctuated in a narrow range in recent months around the upper end of their post-GFC distributions. Credit remained generally available. Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations as well as large and middle-market private corporations. Issuance of nonfinancial corporate bonds and leveraged loans was solid in June, and private credit continued to be broadly available despite ebbing somewhat in May and June. Loan balances on banks' books increased at a moderate pace in the second quarter, led by growth in commercial and industrial (C&I) loans. Lending to small businesses remained subdued, an outcome attributed to weak borrower demand. Banks in the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices reported that, on net, underwriting standards were little changed in the second quarter across most loan categories, although the level of standards remained on the tighter end of their historical range. C&I loan standards, however, were reported to be a little easier than the range seen since 2005, yet still somewhat tighter than in periods not associated with financial stress. Consumer credit continued to be readily available for high-credit-score borrowers, though growth in applications for home purchases, refinances, auto loans, and revolving credit was relatively weak, reflecting heightened borrowing costs and tighter credit standards for lower-credit-score borrowers. In the second quarter, credit performance was generally stable but somewhat weaker than pre-pandemic levels. Corporate bond and leveraged loan credit performance declined moderately in May and June, though defaults remained below post-GFC medians through June. In the commercial real estate market, delinquency rates on commercial mortgage-backed securities remained elevated through June. The rate of serious delinquencies on Federal Housing Administration mortgages continued to be elevated. By contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types continued to stay near historical lows. In May, the credit card delinquency rate was a little below its year-earlier value, while that for auto loans was roughly the same as in May last year; both were elevated relative to their pre-pandemic levels. Student loan delinquencies reported to credit bureaus shot up in the first quarter of the year after the expiration of the on-ramp period for student loan payments. The staff provided an updated assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures were elevated. In equity markets, price-to-earnings ratios stood at the upper end of their historical distribution, while spreads on high-yield corporate bonds narrowed notably and were low relative to their historical distribution. Housing valuations edged down but remained elevated. Vulnerabilities associated with nonfinancial business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Household debt to GDP was at its lowest level in the past 20 years, and household balance sheets remained strong. The ability of publicly traded firms to service their debt remained solid. For private firms, debt grew at a rapid pace, while these firms' interest coverage ratios declined to the lower range of their historical distributions, suggesting that vulnerabilities may be growing in that sector. Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the financial sector were characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high, while recent annual supervisory stress-test results showed that all participants stayed above minimum capital requirements even under stress conditions. Banks, however, were still seen as more exposed to interest rate risk than had been historically typical, albeit to a lesser degree than was the case earlier in the decade. In the nonbank sector, life insurers' allocation of assets toward private credit and risky assets, funded in part by nontraditional liabilities with short maturities, continued to grow. Leverage and rollover risk at hedge funds remained high and concentrated in the largest firms. Vulnerabilities associated with funding risks were characterized as moderate. Money market funds (MMFs) continued to be vulnerable to runs, though the aggregate assets of such prime and prime-like investment vehicles remained in the middle of their historical range as a fraction of GDP. Prime-like alternatives-including private liquidity funds, offshore MMFs, and stablecoins-have grown rapidly and were noted as relatively less transparent. The staff's real GDP growth projection for this year through 2027 was similar to the one prepared for the June meeting, reflecting the offsetting effects of several revisions to the outlook. The staff expected that the rise in the cost of imported goods inclusive of tariffs would be smaller and occur later than in their previous forecast; in addition, financial conditions were projected to be slightly more supportive of output growth. However, these positive influences on the outlook were offset by weaker-than-expected spending data and a smaller assumed population boost from net immigration. The staff continued to expect that the labor market would weaken, with the unemployment rate projected to move above the staff's estimate of its natural rate around the end of this year and to remain above the natural rate through 2027. The staff's inflation projection was slightly lower than the one prepared for the June meeting, reflecting the downward revision to the assumed effects of tariffs on imported goods prices. Tariffs were expected to raise inflation this year and to provide some further upward pressure on inflation in 2026; inflation was then projected to decline to 2 percent by 2027. The staff continued to view the uncertainty around the projection as elevated, primarily reflecting uncertainty regarding changes to economic policies, including trade policy, and their associated economic effects. Risks to real activity were judged to remain skewed to the downside in light of the weakening in GDP growth seen so far this year and elevated policy uncertainty. The staff continued to view the risks around the inflation forecast as skewed to the upside, as the projected rise in inflation this year could prove to be more persistent than assumed in the baseline projection. In their discussion of inflation, many participants observed that overall inflation remained somewhat above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. Participants noted that tariff effects were becoming more apparent in the data, as indicated by recent increases in goods price inflation, while services price inflation had continued to slow. A couple of participants suggested that tariff effects were masking the underlying trend of inflation and, setting aside the tariff effects, inflation was close to target. With regard to the outlook for inflation, participants generally expected inflation to increase in the near term. Participants judged that considerable uncertainty remained about the timing, magnitude, and persistence of the effects of this year's increase in tariffs. In terms of timing, many participants noted that it could take some time for the full effects of higher tariffs to be felt in consumer goods and services prices. Participants cited several contributors to this likely lag. Participants noted that longer-term inflation expectations continued to be well anchored and that it was important that they remain so. Participants observed that the unemployment rate remained low and that employment was at or near estimates of maximum employment. Participants judged that uncertainty about the economic outlook remained elevated. Members agreed that the unemployment rate had remained at a low level and that labor market conditions had remained solid. Members concurred that inflation remained somewhat elevated. Members agreed that uncertainty about the economic outlook remained elevated and that the Committee was attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate. A couple of members preferred to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points at this meeting. Members agreed that the postmeeting statement should affirm their strong commitment both to supporting maximum employment and to returning inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. In support of its goals, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. The Committee is strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. Voting for this action: Jerome H. Powell, John C. Williams, Michael S. Barr, Susan M. Collins, Lisa D. Cook, Austan D. Goolsbee, Philip N. Jefferson, Alberto G. Musalem, and Jeffrey R. Voting against this action: Michelle W. Bowman and Christopher J. Governors Bowman and Waller preferred to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point at this meeting. Governor Bowman preferred at this meeting to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4 to 4-1/4 percent in light of inflation moving considerably closer to the Committee's objective. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, September 16-17, 2025.