Today, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to reduce the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by ½ percentage point. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. In light of the progress on inflation and the balance of risks, at today's meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ½ percentage point to 4¾ percent to 5 percent. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.3 percent this year and 2.1 percent next year, somewhat lower than projected in June. We are not on any preset course. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we are prepared to respond. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. So, in the current situation, reserves have really been stable. So you're close to mandate, maybe at mandate, on that. So the labor market bears close watching, and we'll be giving it that. We're not waiting for that, because, you know, there is-there is thinking that the time to support the labor market is when-is when it's strong and not when we begin to see the layoffs. We're going to be watching all of the data, right? We don't think we need to see further loosening in labor market conditions to get inflation down to 2 percent. We're trying to achieve a situation where we restore price stability without the kind of painful increase in unemployment that has come sometimes with disinflation. We're not really at 2 percent. We know that market rents are doing what we would want them to do, which is to be moving up at relatively low levels. The housing market is in part frozen because of lock-in with low rates. As rates come down, people will start to move more, and that's probably beginning to happen already. We have had, and are on track to continue to have, not enough housing. I think our move is timely. So you're really asking about-your second question, you're asking about July. And I guess if you ask if we'd gotten the July report before the meeting, would we have cut? We might well have. We knew-it's clear that we-clearly, literally, everyone on the Committee agreed that it's time to move. Our intention, though, is-we think that our policy was appropriately restrictive. We expect that process to take some time, as you can see in the projections that we released today. We're restoring that. So what we're going through now really restores-it will benefit people over a long period of time. So countries that are-democracies around the world, countries that are sort of like the United States, all have what are called independent central banks. We're not serving any politician, any political figure, any cause, any issue, nothing. I think, and we think, they are now roughly balanced. Part of bringing down inflation, though, is cooling off the economy and a little bit cooling off the labor market. I don't see anything in the economy right now that suggests that the likelihood of a recession-sorry, of a downturn is elevated, okay?