The manager turned first to a review of developments in financial markets. Financial conditions eased modestly over the intermeeting period, reflecting lower long-term interest rates and higher equity prices. The manager noted that current financial conditions appeared to be providing neither a headwind nor tailwind to growth. Nominal Treasury yields declined over the period, with shorter-term yields having decreased by more than longer-term yields, leading to a steepening of the yield curve. Treasury yields remained sensitive to surprises in economic data, particularly consumer price index releases and employment reports. While near-term inflation compensation fell over the intermeeting period, longer-term forward measures were little changed. Measures of inflation expectations obtained from term structure models were modestly lower. The policy rate path derived from futures prices and the modal path derived from options prices both declined over the intermeeting period and had come into closer alignment with the median of the modal responses from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants. Policy expectations, however measured, pointed to a first rate cut at the September FOMC meeting, at least one more cut later in the year, and further policy easing next year. In the equity markets, the high perceived likelihood of a September cut in the target range for the policy rate induced a notable appreciation in the stocks of firms with small and medium capitalization, which tend to be more sensitive to interest rates. Stocks of larger companies, especially those in the technology sector, underperformed. Second-quarter earnings reports received before the meeting had been slightly above analysts' expectations, although some companies noted a softening in consumer spending. Expectations for policy rates in most advanced foreign economies (AFEs) declined, as recent data generally pointed to continued progress on inflation. Although most AFE central banks had cut their policy rates or were expected to do so soon, the manager noted that market participants continued to expect the Bank of Japan to tighten policy this year. The sudden announcement of a French election contributed to some short-term market volatility early in the intermeeting period, including a widening between yields of French and German 10-year sovereign bonds and a widening in spreads for off-the-run U.S. Treasury securities, but the effects on U.S. Treasury markets were short lived. The effective federal funds rate remained unchanged over the intermeeting period, but the manager noted that rates on repurchase agreements (repo) had edged higher, reflecting increased demand for financing Treasury securities as well as the expected effects of gradual balance sheet normalization. Use of the overnight reverse repo (ON RRP) facility declined slightly over the intermeeting period. The staff projected that ON RRP usage would decline more noticeably over the remainder of the year, particularly as issuance of Treasury bills increases. However, the manager noted that it was possible that idiosyncratic factors specific to some ON RRP participants might support ON RRP balances in the months ahead. Looking at a range of money market indicators, the manager concluded that reserves remained abundant but indicated that the staff would continue to closely monitor developments in money markets. Finally, the manager described a set of technical adjustments to the production of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had proposed in a recent public consultation. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that U.S. economic activity had advanced solidly so far this year, but at a markedly slower pace than in the second half of 2023. Labor market conditions continued to ease: Job gains moderated, and the unemployment rate moved up further but remained low. Consumer price inflation was well below its year-earlier pace but remained somewhat elevated. Consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was about the same in June as it was at the start of the year, though the month-over-month changes in May and June were smaller than those seen earlier in the year. Total PCE price inflation was 2.5 percent in June, and core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.6 percent. Recent data suggested that labor market conditions had eased further. Average monthly nonfarm payroll gains in the second quarter were smaller than the average pace seen in the first quarter and over the previous year. The unemployment rate moved up further in June to 4.1 percent; the labor force participation rate ticked up as well, and the employment-to-population ratio was unchanged. The unemployment rate for African Americans rose in June, while the rate for Hispanics declined slightly; both rates were above that for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment remained at 1.2 in June, about the same as its pre-pandemic level. Measures of nominal wages continued to decelerate: Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.9 percent over the 12 months ending in June, down 0.8 percentage point relative to a year earlier, and the 12-month change in the employment cost index of hourly compensation of private industry workers was 3.9 percent in June, down 0.6 percentage point from its year-earlier pace. According to the advance release, real gross domestic product (GDP) rose solidly in the second quarter after a modest gain in the first quarter. Over the first half of the year, GDP growth was noticeably slower than its average pace in 2023. However, real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—posted a solid second-quarter increase that was in line with its first-quarter pace and only moderately slower than its average rate of increase in 2023. As in the first quarter, net exports subtracted from U.S. GDP growth in the second quarter. Growth in real exports of goods and services remained tepid overall, as gains in exports of capital goods and consumer goods were partly offset by declines in exports of foods and industrial supplies. By contrast, real imports continued to rise at a brisk pace, driven by further increases in imports of capital goods. Foreign economic growth was estimated to have been subdued in the second quarter, held down by a sharp deceleration in economic activity in China amid ongoing property-sector woes. In Europe and Latin America, output likely expanded below its trend pace, as restrictive monetary policy continued to be a drag on activity. Recent global inflation developments were mixed. In the AFEs, headline inflation edged down in the second quarter but generally remained above target levels. In emerging market economies, headline inflation rose a touch overall, reflecting, in part, run-ups in food prices in some countries. The Bank of Canada and the Swiss National Bank cut their policy rates further, in part citing easing inflation pressures. The People's Bank of China also lowered some key policy rates amid ongoing property-sector woes and weak consumer sentiment. The market-implied path for the federal funds rate moved down over the intermeeting period. Options on interest rate futures suggested that market participants were placing higher odds on a larger policy easing by early 2025 than they did just before the June meeting. Consistent with the downward shift in the implied policy path, nominal Treasury yields moved down, on net, with the most pronounced declines at shorter horizons driven largely by decreases in inflation compensation. Broad stock price indexes rose slightly on net. Yield spreads on investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds were little changed and remained at about the lowest decile of their respective historical distributions. The one-month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index rose moderately and was somewhat elevated by historical standards, suggesting that investors perceived some, but not outsized, risks to the economic outlook. Market-based measures of the expected paths of policy rates and sovereign bond yields in most AFEs fell notably, largely in response to declines in U.S. rates. Following the surprise announcement of parliamentary elections in France, the spread between yields of French and German 10-year sovereign bonds widened to its highest level since 2012 but then partially retraced on the outcome of no clear parliamentary majority. The broad dollar index was little changed over the intermeeting period. On balance, moves in foreign risky asset prices were mixed and modest. Overnight secured rates edged up over the intermeeting period, but conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable, with typical dynamics observed surrounding quarter-end. Average usage of the ON RRP facility declined slightly. Banks' total deposit levels increased modestly, as large time deposits displayed moderate inflows. In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs remained elevated over the intermeeting period despite modest declines in some markets. Rates on 30-year conforming residential mortgages declined, on net, over the intermeeting period but stayed near recent high levels. Interest rates on new credit card offers increased slightly, while rates on new auto loans were little changed. Interest rates on small business loans remained elevated. Yields on an array of fixed-income securities—including commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, and residential mortgage-backed securities—moved lower to still-elevated levels relative to recent history. The declines were largely driven by decreases in Treasury yields. Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations and large and middle-market private corporations, and credit availability for leveraged loan borrowers remained solid over the intermeeting period. For smaller firms, however, credit availability remained moderately tight. In the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), banks reported modestly tighter standards and lending terms for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans, on net, while reported demand for C&I loans remained about unchanged. Meanwhile, C&I loan balances increased in the second quarter. Regarding commercial real estate (CRE) loans, banks in the July SLOOS reported tightening standards for all loan categories. Nonetheless, bank CRE loan balances increased over the second quarter, albeit at a diminished pace relative to the previous quarter. Credit remained available for most consumers over the intermeeting period, though credit growth showed signs of moderating. Credit card balances slowed in June, and SLOOS respondents indicated that standards for credit cards tightened moderately in the second quarter. Although banks reported in the SLOOS that lending standards on auto loans were unchanged in the second quarter, growth in auto lending at both banks and nonbanks contracted further. In the residential mortgage market, access to credit was little changed overall and continued to depend on borrowers' credit risk attributes. Credit quality remained solid for large and midsize firms, home mortgage borrowers, and municipalities but continued to deteriorate in other sectors. The credit quality of nonfinancial firms borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan markets remained stable. Delinquency rates on loans to small businesses remained slightly above pre-pandemic levels. Credit quality in the CRE market deteriorated further, with the average delinquency rate for loans in CMBS and the share of nonperforming CRE loans at banks both rising further. Regarding household balance sheets, delinquency rates on most residential mortgages remained near pre-pandemic lows. Though consumer delinquency rates had increased, particularly among nonprime borrowers, the rise in delinquency rates for both credit cards and auto loans slowed in the second quarter. The staff provided an update on its assessment of the stability of the U.S. financial system and, on balance, continued to characterize the system's financial vulnerabilities as notable. The staff judged that asset valuation pressures remained elevated, with estimates of risk premiums across key markets low compared with historical standards. House prices remained elevated relative to fundamentals. CRE prices continued to decline, especially in the multifamily and office sectors, and vacancy rates in these sectors continued to increase. Vulnerabilities associated with business and household debt were characterized as moderate. Nonfinancial business leverage was high, but the ability of public firms to service their debt remained solid, in large part due to strong earnings. The fraction of private firms with low debt-servicing ability continued to move up and remained at high levels compared with the past decade. Household balance sheets remained strong overall, as aggregate home equity stayed quite high and delinquencies on mortgage loans remained low. Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as notable. Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector remained high. The fair value of bank assets, however, remained low. For the nonbank sector, leverage at hedge funds was at its highest recorded level based on data since 2013, partly due to the prevalence of the cash–futures basis trade. Leverage at life insurers was somewhat elevated, and their holdings of risky and illiquid securities continued to grow. Funding risks were also characterized as notable. Assets in prime money market funds and other runnable cash-management vehicles remained near historical highs. Life insurers' greater reliance on nontraditional liabilities, coupled with their increasing holdings of risky corporate debt, suggested that adverse shocks to the industry could trigger substantial funding pressures at these firms. The economic forecast prepared by the staff for the July meeting implied a lower rate of resource utilization over the projection period relative to the forecast prepared for the previous meeting. The staff's outlook for growth in the second half of 2024 had been marked down largely in response to weaker-than-expected labor market indicators. As a result, the output gap at the start of 2025 was somewhat narrower than had been previously projected, although still not fully closed. Over 2025 and 2026, real GDP growth was expected to rise about in line with potential, leaving the output gap roughly flat in those years. The unemployment rate was expected to edge up slightly over the remainder of 2024 and then to remain roughly unchanged in 2025 and 2026. The staff's inflation forecast was slightly lower than the one prepared for the previous meeting, reflecting incoming data and the lower projected level of resource utilization. Both total and core PCE price inflation were expected to decline further as demand and supply in product and labor markets continued to move into better balance; by 2026, total and core inflation were expected to be around 2 percent. The staff continued to view the uncertainty around the baseline projection as close to the average over the past 20 years. Risks to the inflation forecast were still seen as tilted to the upside, albeit to a smaller degree than at the time of the previous meeting. The risks around the forecast for real activity were viewed as skewed to the downside, both because more-persistent inflation could result in tighter financial conditions than in the baseline and because the recent softening in some indicators of labor market conditions might be pointing to a larger-than-anticipated slowdown in aggregate demand growth. Participants observed that inflation had eased over the past year but remained elevated and that, in recent months, there had been some further progress toward the Committee's 2 percent inflation objective. Participants noted that the recent progress on disinflation was broad based across the major subcomponents of core inflation. Core goods prices were about flat from March through June after having risen during the first three months of the year. Price inflation in June for housing services showed a notable slowing, which participants had been anticipating for some time. In addition, core nonhousing services prices had decelerated in recent months. Some participants noted that the recent data corroborated reports from their business contacts that firms' pricing power was waning, as consumers appeared to be more sensitive to price increases. Various contacts had also reported that they had cut prices or were offering discounts to stay competitive, or that declines in input costs had helped reduce pressure on retail prices. With regard to the outlook for inflation, participants judged that recent data had increased their confidence that inflation was moving sustainably toward 2 percent. Almost all participants observed that the factors that had contributed to recent disinflation would likely continue to put downward pressure on inflation in coming months. These factors included a continued waning of pricing power, moderating economic growth, and the runoff in excess household savings accumulated during the pandemic. Many participants noted that the moderation of growth in labor costs as labor market conditions rebalanced would continue to contribute to disinflation, particularly in core nonhousing services prices. Some participants noted that the lags in the time it takes for housing rental conditions for new tenants to show through to aggregate price data for housing services meant that the disinflationary trend in this component would likely continue. Participants also observed that longer-term inflation expectations had remained well anchored and viewed this anchoring as underpinning the disinflation process. A couple of participants noted that inflation pressures might persist for some time, as they assessed that the economy had considerable momentum, and that, even with some easing of the demand for labor, the labor market remained strong. Participants assessed that supply and demand conditions in the labor market had continued to come into better balance. The unemployment rate had moved up but remained low, having risen 0.7 percentage point since its trough in April 2023 to 4.1 percent in June. The monthly pace of payroll job gains had moderated from the first quarter but had been solid in recent months. However, many participants noted that reported payroll gains might be overstated, and several assessed that payroll gains may be lower than those needed to keep the unemployment rate constant with a flat labor force participation rate. Participants observed that other indicators also pointed to easing in labor market conditions, including a lower hiring rate and a downtrend in job vacancies since the beginning of the year. Participants noted that the rebalancing of labor market conditions over the past year was also aided by an expansion of the supply of workers, reflecting increases in the labor force participation rate among individuals aged 25 to 54 and a strong pace of Members agreed to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent. Members concurred that, in considering any adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, they would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. Members agreed that they did not expect that it would be appropriate to reduce the target range until they had gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. Members also agreed to reflect the shifting balance of risks by stating that "the Committee judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals continue to move into better balance" and that "the Committee is attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate." Members agreed to continue to reduce the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities. Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m.: The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. The Committee judges that the risks to achieving its employment and inflation goals continue to move into better balance. The economic outlook is uncertain, and the Committee is attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate. In support of its goals, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent. The Committee does not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 percent. The Committee will continue reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals.