Nominal Treasury yields fluctuated over the intermeeting period and were slightly higher, on net, than in early November. Treasury yields had risen notably since their trough in mid-September, with the rise in the 10-year nominal yield driven largely by increases in real yields. Liquidity in Treasury markets deteriorated somewhat following the U.S. election but remained well within the ranges observed over the past three years. With near-term measures of inflation compensation a little higher over the intermeeting period and longer-term measures little changed, the manager noted that there were few signs of concern about persistent inflationary pressures in market prices. Equity prices largely sustained the gains that they had experienced in anticipation of, and immediately following, the U.S. election. The manager noted that market expectations for the path of the federal funds rate were little changed over the intermeeting period. Markets had almost fully priced in a 25 basis point cut in the target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting, and all respondents from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market Participants expected the same. Survey respondents anticipated that the pace of rate cuts would slow considerably in 2025, with the median respondent expecting 75 basis points of cuts for the full year; options and futures prices suggested a somewhat lower level of expected policy easing in 2025. However, in discussing both survey and market expectations, the manager noted that there was considerable uncertainty among market participants about the path of the federal funds rate in the year ahead. The manager also discussed balance sheet policy expectations. The average estimate of survey respondents for the timing of the end of balance sheet runoff shifted a bit later, to June 2025. This shift mainly reflected revisions to estimates by respondents who had expected balance sheet runoff to end in the last quarter of 2024 or in early 2025. Regarding international developments, the manager noted that market participants expected central banks in nearly all advanced foreign economies (AFEs) to continue to reduce their policy rates in 2025. In contrast to the U.S., market expectations for policy rates at the end of 2025 in most AFEs had shifted lower over the intermeeting period. The manager noted that this widening between U.S. and foreign interest rates appeared to be a major contributor to the increase in the trade-weighted U.S. dollar index observed over the intermeeting period. The manager then turned to money markets and Desk operations. Unsecured overnight rates had remained stable over the intermeeting period, and with the exception of temporary pressures around month-end and Treasury auction settlement dates, rates on overnight repurchase agreements (repo) were little changed. The manager noted that, on average, market participants appeared to be expecting upward pressure in repo markets around year-end comparable with that seen at the September quarter-end. Based on term and forward-settling repo volumes, market participants appeared to have been more proactive than in recent years in preparing for the year-end, which the manager judged could help mitigate somewhat the extent of upward pressure on repo rates during that time. Pricing in the federal funds market continued to be insensitive to day-to-day changes in the supply of reserves over the intermeeting period. The manager noted that this outcome was consistent with reserves remaining abundant and that various other indicators, as well as responses about banks' desired reserve levels from the Federal Reserve's Senior Financial Officer Survey, pointed to the same conclusion. Looking ahead, the manager raised the possibility that the potential reinstatement of the debt limit in 2025 could result in substantial shifts in Federal Reserve liabilities that could pose challenges in assessing reserve conditions. Usage of the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility continued its decline over the intermeeting period. The recent decrease in ON RRP usage was attributable in part to increases in net Treasury bill issuance, which made Treasury bill rates more attractive. In the near term, the manager judged that ON RRP volumes were likely to rise because of an expected decline in net Treasury bill issuance and typical year-end dynamics. The manager also noted that the potential reinstatement of the debt limit could keep ON RRP balances elevated for some time in 2025. The manager discussed market expectations regarding a technical adjustment that would lower the ON RRP offering rate to the bottom of the target range for the federal funds rate. Based on the Desk surveys and market outreach, most market participants expected such an adjustment at this meeting. Market participants' views varied on how much downward pressure this adjustment would put on money market rates, but repo rates were generally expected to fall more than the federal funds rate. The manager concluded by noting that the Desk was planning to add a second standing repo facility (SRF) auction on each day of the week spanning year-end. The manager viewed these additional auctions as technical exercises that could improve the Federal Reserve's understanding of how SRF auction times can support effective policy implementation and market functioning during periods of expected money market pressures. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had continued to expand at a solid pace in 2024. Labor market conditions had eased since early 2024, but the unemployment rate remained low. Consumer price inflation was below its year-earlier rate but was still somewhat elevated. Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was 2.3 percent in October, below the 3.0 percent rate seen a year earlier. Core PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.8 percent in October, lower than its 3.4 percent rate a year earlier. In November, the 12-month change in the consumer price index (CPI) was 2.7 percent, and core CPI inflation was 3.3 percent; both were below their year-earlier rates. Given both the CPI and producer price index data, the staff estimated that total PCE price inflation would be reported as 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in November and that core PCE price inflation would be 2.8 percent. Recent data suggested that labor market conditions had eased slightly further but remained solid. Average monthly nonfarm payroll gains over October and November were a little below their pace in the third quarter. The staff estimated that job gains were held down by the effects of labor strikes and hurricanes in October and were boosted by a similar amount in November after those effects unwound. The unemployment rate ticked up to 4.2 percent in November, and both the labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio moved down a bit further. The unemployment rates for African Americans and for Hispanics also moved up, and both rates were above those for Asians and for Whites. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment held steady at 1.1 in November, slightly lower than its level just before the pandemic. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 4 percent over the 12 months ending in November—the same rate as in the previous month. Real GDP posted a solid gain in the third quarter that was similar to its second-quarter pace. Real private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—rose faster than real GDP in the third quarter. Exports rose briskly in the third quarter; import growth was even faster. In the fourth quarter, available economic indicators suggested that real GDP growth remained solid, with growth of real PDFP still outpacing that of real GDP. Imports fell more than exports in October, with real imports of capital goods dropping back after brisk growth earlier in the year. Foreign economic growth picked up in the third quarter, notably in the euro area and in Mexico. Recent economic indicators, however, suggested much weaker momentum in foreign economies in the fourth quarter, with lackluster manufacturing activity and subdued private consumption spending. In China, growth in retail sales slowed, suggesting that domestic demand remained weak. Strength in high-tech goods production continued abroad, mainly in Asia excluding China, supported by buoyant U.S. demand. Inflation in foreign economies continued to ease. In most AFEs, headline inflation slowed to near or below target levels, mainly reflecting the pass-through of lower energy prices earlier in the year. Services inflation, however, remained high in some of those economies. In China, inflation remained close to zero, in part due to falling food prices. By contrast, in some Latin American countries, most notably Brazil, inflation continued to increase, partly because of currency depreciation. The market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next year edged higher, on net, since the U.S. election, as investors assessed the implications of incoming inflation data and potential economic policy changes for the near-term economic outlook. Communications by Federal Reserve officials contributed to investors' perceptions of a slower timeline for policy rate reductions. Nominal Treasury yields across the maturity spectrum initially increased but then reversed those increases, ending the intermeeting period little changed. Measures of near-term inflation compensation moved up, while those of longer-term inflation compensation were little changed. Broad equity prices rose, with more pronounced increases in stock prices in cyclical sectors amid increased investor optimism for corporate profits, and high-yield bond spreads narrowed. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—fell notably and remained well below pre-election levels. Foreign financial market pricing reflected weaker-than-expected foreign data releases, expectations of further policy easing by foreign central banks, and potential changes in U.S. trade policy. Accordingly, foreign bond yields generally declined relative to their U.S. counterparts, contributing to dollar appreciation against most foreign currencies. Foreign equities generally underperformed U.S. equities, in part reflecting investors' expectations of economic growth diverging further between the U.S. and the rest of the world. Many foreign central banks eased their policy rates during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank, among the AFEs, and the central banks of Hong Kong, India, Korea, and Mexico, among the emerging market economies. An exception was the Central Bank of Brazil, which increased its policy rate 100 basis points and signaled further hikes in the face of inflationary pressures. Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained generally stable over the intermeeting period, with the lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate in November fully passing through to both secured and unsecured reference rates. Money market funds' (MMFs) usage of the ON RRP facility was lower, on average, than in the previous intermeeting period, reflecting increased holdings of Treasury bills amid sizable net bill issuance. Overall, MMF assets under management stayed near record highs. Spreads of unsecured commercial paper maturing over year-end remained within typical ranges, and global offshore dollar funding markets continued to be stable. In domestic markets, borrowing costs for households, businesses, and municipalities remained elevated despite small declines in most credit segments. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages declined but stayed elevated. Interest rates on credit cards and new auto loans continued to be at historical highs, although interest rates on new auto loans decreased further. Borrowing costs for leveraged loan borrowers declined slightly. Interest rates on newly originated commercial and industrial (C&I) loans ticked down in the third quarter, and interest rates on short-term loans to small businesses remained unchanged. Yields on an array of fixed-income securities, including investment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds and commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), decreased slightly but remained elevated. Financing in capital markets continued to be broadly available for large-to-midsize businesses and municipalities. For small businesses, however, credit availability remained relatively tight, and loan originations stayed subdued in October. C&I loans by banks increased moderately in October and were flat through November after modest growth in the third quarter. After stalling in the third quarter, commercial real estate (CRE) loan growth picked up moderately in October and remained subdued through late November. Meanwhile, agency CMBS issuance continued to be weak in October, while non-agency CMBS issuance was strong in October and in the first three weeks of November, reflecting a high volume of refinancing activity. Credit continued to be generally available for most households. Even so, auto loans were little changed in the third quarter, and growth of revolving credit was weak into November. Credit in the residential mortgage market continued to be readily available for high-credit-score borrowers, while credit availability for low-credit-score borrowers improved, on net, over the six months through October. Credit quality remained solid for large-to-midsize firms, municipalities, and most home mortgage borrowers. The credit performance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans was generally stable. At banks, delinquency rates on C&I loans were stable and remained within the range observed over the past decade. Delinquency rates on small business loans continued to increase through October, as did delinquencies on small business credit cards through September. In CRE markets, credit performance deteriorated further as aggregate CMBS delinquency rates rose through October, driven by delinquencies on office loans. At banks, delinquency rates on CRE loans ticked up through September from already elevated levels. Regarding household credit quality, delinquency rates on most residential mortgages were largely unchanged and stood near historical lows. However, the delinquency rate on Federal Housing Administration mortgages, which are disproportionately used by borrowers with lower credit scores and smaller down payments, remained above pre-pandemic levels. Delinquency rates on credit cards continued to increase, albeit at a slower pace than earlier in the year, while delinquency rates on auto loans were unchanged. The staff projection at the December meeting was for economic conditions to stay solid. Given the elevated uncertainty regarding specifics about the scope and timing of potential changes to trade, immigration, fiscal, and regulatory policies and their potential effects on the economy, the staff highlighted the difficulty of selecting and assessing the importance of such factors for the baseline projection and featured a number of alternative scenarios. After incorporating the recent data and preliminary placeholder assumptions about potential policy changes, real GDP growth was projected to be slightly slower than in the previous baseline forecast, and the unemployment rate was expected to be a bit higher but to remain near the staff's estimate of its natural rate. In the staff's baseline projection, the inflation forecast for 2024 was slightly higher than the one prepared for the previous meeting, reflecting upside surprises in some recent data. Inflation in 2025 was expected to remain at about the same rate as in 2024, as the effects of the staff's placeholder trade policy assumptions held inflation up. Thereafter, inflation was forecast to decline to 2 percent by 2027, the same as in the projection at the November meeting. The staff continued to view the uncertainty around the baseline projection as within the range seen over the past 20 years, a period that encompassed a number of episodes during which uncertainty about the economy and federal policy changes was elevated. The staff judged that the risks around the baseline forecasts for employment and real GDP growth were balanced, as concerns about downside risks from a marked cooling in labor market conditions had eased in recent months. The risks around the inflation forecast were seen as tilted to the upside, as core inflation had not come down as much as expected in 2024 and the effects of trade policy changes could be larger than the staff had assumed. In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, participants submitted their projections of the most likely outcomes for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation for each year from 2024 through 2027 and over the longer run. These projections were based on participants' individual assessments of appropriate monetary policy, including their projections of the federal funds rate. The longer-run projections represented each participant's assessment of the rate to which each variable would tend to converge under appropriate monetary policy and in the absence of further shocks to the economy. The Summary of Economic Projections was released to the public after the meeting. In their discussion of inflation developments, participants noted that although inflation had eased substantially from its peak in 2022, it remained somewhat elevated. Participants commented that the overall pace of disinflation had slowed over 2024 and that some recent monthly price readings had been higher than anticipated. Nevertheless, most remarked that disinflationary progress continued to be apparent across a broad range of core goods and services prices. Notably, some participants observed that in the core goods and market-based core services categories, excluding housing, prices were increasing at rates close to those seen during earlier periods of price stability. Many participants noted that the slowing in these components of inflation corroborated reports received from their business contacts that firms were more reluctant to increase prices, as consumers appeared to be more price sensitive and were increasingly seeking discounts. With respect to core services prices, a majority of participants remarked that increases in some components had exceeded expectations over recent months; many noted, however, that the increases were concentrated largely in non-market-based price categories and that price movements in such categories typically have not provided reliable signals about resource pressures or the future trajectory of inflation. Most participants also remarked that increases in housing services prices remained somewhat elevated, though they continued to slow gradually, as the pace of rent increases for new tenants continued to moderate and would eventually be reflected further in housing services prices. With regard to the outlook for inflation, participants expected that inflation Members agreed to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. One member voted against that decision, preferring to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent. Members agreed to continue to reduce the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities. Members also judged that it was appropriate to make a technical adjustment to the rate offered at the ON RRP facility by setting it equal to the bottom of the target range for the federal funds rate. Members agreed that the postmeeting statement should affirm their strong commitment both to supporting maximum employment and to returning inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. In support of its goals, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 1/4 percentage point to 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. Voting against this action: Beth M. Hammack. President Hammack dissented because she preferred to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 percent, in light of uneven progress in returning inflation to 2 percent, the strength of the economy and the labor market, and the state of financial conditions. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, January 28–29, 2025. The meeting adjourned at 10:10 a.m. on December 18, 2024. By notation vote completed on November 25, 2024, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on November 6–7, 2024.