Committee participants continued their discussions related to their review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy framework, focusing on assessing risks and uncertainty relevant for monetary policy and the implications for the FOMC's strategy and communications. The staff reviewed qualitative and quantitative tools commonly used to measure uncertainty about the economic outlook and the balance of risks, drawing on U.S. and international experience. Participants noted that risks and uncertainty are important factors affecting their decision-making and emphasized the need for a policy strategy that aims to achieve the Committee's maximum-employment and price-stability objectives across a wide range of highly uncertain developments. Participants acknowledged that risks and uncertainty about the economy are pervasive and pose challenges to both the design and communication of monetary policy. They remarked that measuring and assessing risks and uncertainty are difficult and that the Committee has been well served by relying on a wide range of indicators, as well as information from business and community contacts, to gauge evolving risks, especially during periods of heightened uncertainty. Participants remarked that effective communications about risks and uncertainty help the public understand the Committee's decisions and enhance the transparency, accountability, and effectiveness of monetary policy decisions. Participants had a preliminary discussion about a range of issues related to enhancing the Committee's suite of communication tools, including possible changes to the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) and a potential broader use of alternative scenarios. Participants highlighted, however, the challenges associated with adjustments to these tools and noted that any revisions to the Committee's communication policies would need to be considered carefully and receive broad support across participants. Participants agreed to continue their discussions of ways to enhance the Committee's communication tools and practices once they completed their review of their Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Participants expected that they would complete that review by late summer. Over the intermeeting period, policy expectations and Treasury yields rose modestly, credit spreads narrowed, and equity prices increased. Markets were attentive to the de-escalation of trade tensions; generally weaker-than-expected economic data releases, with the notable exception of the May employment report; and prospects for fiscal expansion. These factors, on net, resulted in some paring back of investors' perception of downside risk to growth and upside risk to inflation. Results from the Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations were consistent with this interpretation: The median respondent's expectations for real gross domestic product (GDP) growth and personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation for 2025 retraced some of the moves that occurred after the April tariff announcements, though growth expectations were still materially lower and inflation expectations remained higher relative to the March survey. The median respondent's modal path for the federal funds rate in the June survey shifted higher through 2026 and implied two 25 basis point rate cuts both this year and next year. Market-based policy expectations were largely consistent with survey results, with both the futures-based average federal funds rate path and the options-based modal federal funds rate path shifting higher over the intermeeting period. Overall, the changes in the intermeeting period brought policy expectations for the next few quarters back close to where they stood at the time of the March FOMC meeting. However, futures-based policy expectations beyond the next few quarters had not fully retraced the decline seen over the previous intermeeting period, suggesting that perceived medium- and longer-term downside risks to growth remained larger than before the April tariff announcements. Nominal Treasury yields rose 15 to 20 basis points, on net, over the intermeeting period. The manager observed that the rise in shorter-maturity yields was consistent with the upward shift in the expected policy rate path. The rise in longer-maturity yields appeared to reflect, in part, market participants' increasing fiscal concerns: In response to a Desk survey question about the top factors behind the respondents' forecast of the 10-year yield over the next two years, the fiscal outlook was the factor cited by the largest number of respondents. Market-implied inflation compensation for the year ahead fell about 20 basis points over the intermeeting period, while longer-term inflation compensation measures were little changed. Liquidity conditions for nominal Treasury securities had improved as volatility declined following the stress seen in the previous intermeeting period. The events of April, and the more recent focus in markets around fiscal sustainability issues, did not appear to have affected demand for Treasury securities at auction; an index of auction performance derived from a number of metrics indicated that auction performance had improved modestly over the past several quarters and was currently in line with the longer-run average. Regarding foreign exchange developments, the broad trade-weighted dollar index fell further during the intermeeting period despite increases in U.S. equity prices and short-term Treasury yields. The manager noted that dollar depreciation continued to be consistent with larger downside revisions to the U.S. growth outlook relative to other major economies, which induced increased currency hedging flows by foreign investors in U.S. assets. The manager also remarked that the sensitivity of the foreign exchange value of the dollar to domestic economic surprises had not fundamentally changed. The available data continued to suggest stability in foreign holdings of U.S. assets. Unsecured overnight rates remained stable over the intermeeting period. Rates in the repurchase agreement (repo) market were softer relative to the previous intermeeting period, including at the May month-end, as reductions in net Treasury bill issuance amid the ongoing debt limit situation resulted in increased demand for repo. With the softness in repo making the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) facility more attractive on a relative basis, usage of the ON RRP facility had been broadly stable, except for the typical spike at month-end. Since the start of the debt issuance suspension period in January, the Treasury General Account (TGA) had declined nearly $420 billion, ON RRP balances had increased about $75 billion, and reserves had increased $150 billion. Key indicators continued to suggest that reserves, which stood at nearly $3.5 trillion, were well into the abundant range. Once the debt limit was addressed, however, the TGA was likely to be rebuilt fairly quickly, which would drain liquidity from the system and result in fast declines in both ON RRP and reserve balances. The manager also discussed the trajectory of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio. Since balance sheet runoff commenced in June 2022, SOMA securities holdings had fallen almost $2-1/4 trillion. As a percentage of GDP, the portfolio had declined to close to where it had been at the start of the pandemic. The corresponding drain in Federal Reserve liabilities had largely come out of balances at the ON RRP facility, while reserve levels had been relatively little changed over that period. Respondents to the June Desk survey, on average, expected runoff to end in February of next year, a month later compared with the previous survey, with an expected size of the SOMA portfolio of $6.2 trillion, or about 20 percent of GDP. At that point, the respondents, on average, expected reserves to be at $2.9 trillion and the ON RRP balance to be low. The manager noted that, starting on June 26, the Desk will begin adding regular morning standing repo facility (SRF) operations to the existing afternoon operations. The additional operations are intended to further enhance the effectiveness of the SRF in its ability to support monetary policy implementation and smooth market functioning. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated. The unemployment rate continued to be low, and labor market conditions were solid. Available indicators suggested that real GDP was expanding at a solid pace in the second quarter. Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the PCE price index—was estimated to have been 2.3 percent in May, based on the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was 2.6 percent in May. Both total and core inflation were lower than at the beginning of the year. Survey-based measures of short-term inflation expectations remained high, although the extent of increases in recent months had varied considerably and some measures had declined somewhat in May and June. Most survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations had held steady. Recent data indicated that labor market conditions had remained solid. The unemployment rate was 4.2 percent in May, the same as in the previous two months. The labor force participation rate and the employment-to-population ratio moved down in May but remained near their levels since the beginning of the year. Total nonfarm payrolls increased at a solid pace in May, a little above the average monthly rate over the previous four months. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed job seekers was unchanged at 1.0 in May. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 3.9 percent over the 12 months ending in May, a little lower than a year earlier. Recent information suggested that real GDP was rising in the second quarter, after it had declined slightly in the previous quarter. Real private domestic final purchases—which comprises PCE and private fixed investment and which often provides a better signal than GDP of underlying economic momentum—had increased solidly in the first quarter and appeared to be expanding further in the second quarter. Indicators for consumer spending, such as retail sales and motor vehicle purchases through May, pointed to solid PCE growth in the second quarter. Business fixed investment (BFI) rose markedly in the first quarter, apparently boosted by a pull-forward of imported capital goods in anticipation of tariff increases, and incoming data suggested that BFI was rising modestly in the second quarter. International trade flows continued to be volatile amid substantial shifts in U.S. tariffs. After surging in the first quarter ahead of expected tariff hikes, U.S. imports—especially of consumer goods—declined sharply in April. That decline suggested that the front-loading of imports had stopped after the introduction of broad-based tariffs in early April. By contrast, U.S. exports firmed in April. In mid-May, the U.S. and China agreed to a 90-day reduction in bilateral tariffs, and recent indicators suggested that this change led to a rebound in trade flows. Economic growth abroad picked up in the first quarter, lifted by the surge in shipments to the U.S.—especially from Europe and Asia excluding China—in anticipation of tariff hikes. More recent indicators pointed to a slowdown in foreign economic activity in the second quarter, partly reflecting lower exports to the U.S. and the effects of elevated uncertainty about the course of global trade policies. Inflation abroad remained near central bank targets in many foreign economies, although recent data showed renewed inflationary pressures in some countries, notably in Mexico. By contrast, inflation in China remained subdued. Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, citing concerns about economic growth and, in some cases, further progress on restoring price stability. In their communications, foreign central banks continued to emphasize the need to maintain policy flexibility amid substantial risks and uncertainty. Despite a weakening of near-term inflation pressures, the market-implied path of the federal funds rate over the next year increased over the intermeeting period with improvements in the economic outlook amid a general easing in trade tensions. Near-term inflation compensation declined, while longer-term inflation compensation was little changed. Nominal and real Treasury yields increased moderately, on net, across the maturity spectrum. Consistent with improving risk sentiment from recent trade developments, broad equity price indexes increased markedly, and credit spreads tightened. Credit spreads narrowed to very low levels relative to their historical distribution, except for the lowest-quality corporate bonds, which stood close to the median of their distribution. The VIX—a forward-looking measure of near-term equity market volatility—declined moderately. The reduction in trade policy tensions between the U.S. and China led to an improvement in global economic growth prospects and lifted investor risk sentiment. The military conflict between Israel and Iran left only a limited imprint outside of energy markets. On net, equity indexes and market-based policy rate expectations increased in most major foreign economies. The dollar depreciated a bit further. Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remained stable. After increasing over the previous intermeeting period because of incoming tax receipts, the TGA had resumed its decline in response to actions associated with the ongoing federal debt limit situation. Average usage of the ON RRP facility was little changed. Rates in secured markets were, on average, slightly below the effective federal funds rate, likely reflecting low Treasury bill supply. In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for businesses, households, and municipalities mostly edged down but remained elevated. Yields on both corporate bonds and leveraged loans declined modestly. Interest rates on small business loans decreased in May. Yields on higher-rated tranches of commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) were little changed or increased slightly, whereas yields on lower-rated CMBS tranches declined, notably so for non-agency securities. Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages were little changed and remained elevated. Interest rates on credit card offers ticked up in March and April, while rates on new auto loans were little changed in May. Financing through capital markets and nonbank lenders was readily accessible for public corporations and large and middle-market private corporations. Issuance of nonfinancial corporate bonds and leveraged loans, which slowed in April, was solid in May and early June, and private credit continued to be broadly available in April and May. Regarding bank credit, commercial and industrial loan growth picked up in April but moderated in May. Commercial real estate (CRE) loan growth was modest in April and May. Credit remained available for most households. In the residential mortgage market, credit continued to be easily available for high-credit-score borrowers but was tighter for low-credit-score borrowers despite easing slightly in May. Growth in consumer loan balances at banks was robust in April and May. Credit quality remained solid for large-to-midsize firms, municipalities, and most categories of mortgages, but delinquency rates continued to be somewhat elevated in other sectors. The credit performance of corporate bonds and leveraged loans remained stable in May. Delinquency rates on small business loans in March and April stayed above pre-pandemic levels. In the CRE market, CMBS delinquency rates remained elevated in May. Regarding household credit quality, the rate of serious delinquencies on Federal Housing Administration mortgages remained above pre-pandemic levels in April. By contrast, delinquency rates on most other mortgage loan types continued to stay near historical lows. In the first quarter, credit card and auto loan delinquency rates remained at elevated levels. Student loan delinquencies reported to credit bureaus shot up in the first quarter of the year after the expiration of the on-ramp period for student loan payments and were expected to climb further over the next few quarters. While delinquent student loan borrowers have not shown greater difficulty in meeting other debt payments so far, debt collections on defaulted student loans later this year could boost delinquency rates on other debt. The staff projection of real GDP growth for this year through 2027 was higher than the one prepared for the May meeting, primarily because trade policy announcements led the staff to reduce their assumptions about effective tariff rates relative to those in their previous forecast. With that improved economic outlook, labor market conditions were not expected to weaken as much as in the previous projection, though the unemployment rate was still forecast to rise somewhat through next year and to run a little above the staff's estimate of its natural rate through 2027. The staff's inflation projection was lower than the one prepared for the May meeting. Tariff increases were expected to raise inflation this year and to provide a small boost in 2026. Inflation was projected to decline to 2 percent by 2027. The staff continued to view the uncertainty around their economic outlook as elevated, primarily reflecting the uncertainty surrounding changes to trade, fiscal, immigration, and regulatory policies and the associated economic effects. In addition to the baseline forecast, the staff had prepared a number of alternative economic scenarios. The staff judged the risks around the projections of real GDP growth and employment as still skewed to the downside, though they saw the risk of a recession as less than at the time of their previous forecast. The staff continued to view the risks around the inflation forecast as skewed to the upside, as the projected rise in inflation this year could be more persistent than assumed in the baseline projection. In conjunction with this FOMC meeting, participants submitted their projections of the most likely outcomes for real GDP growth, the unemployment rate, and inflation for each year from 2025 through 2027 and over the longer run. Participants noted that the available data showed that economic growth was solid and the unemployment rate was low. Participants observed that inflation had come down but remained somewhat elevated. Participants judged that uncertainty about the outlook was elevated amid evolving developments in trade policy, other government policies, and geopolitical risks, but that overall uncertainty had diminished since the previous meeting. Participants judged that there were downside risks to employment and economic activity and upside risks to inflation, but that these risks had decreased as expectations about effective tariff rates and their effects had declined from levels in April. Participants observed that inflation had eased significantly since its peak in 2022 but remained somewhat elevated relative to the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. Participants noted that the progress in returning inflation to target had continued even though that progress had been uneven. Participants judged that economic activity had continued to grow at a solid pace, although uncertainty remained elevated. Members agreed that it was appropriate to acknowledge in the postmeeting statement that uncertainty about the economic outlook had diminished but remained elevated, and the Committee was attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate. Members agreed that, in considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. All members agreed that the postmeeting statement should affirm their strong commitment both to supporting maximum employment and to returning inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. Participants noted that the unemployment rate remained at a low level and that labor market conditions had remained solid. Members agreed that inflation remained somewhat elevated. Participants emphasized the importance of ensuring that longer-term inflation expectations remained well anchored and agreed that the current stance of monetary policy positioned the Committee well to respond in a timely way to potential economic developments. Participants generally agreed that, with economic growth and the labor market still solid and current monetary policy moderately or modestly restrictive, the Committee was well positioned to wait for more clarity on the outlook for inflation and economic activity. Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. In support of its goals, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. The Committee is strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The Committee's assessments will take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. Voting for this action: Jerome H. Powell, John C. Williams, Michael S. Barr, Michelle W. Bowman, Susan M. Collins, Lisa D. Cook, Austan D. Goolsbee, Philip N. Jefferson, Adriana D. Kugler, Alberto G. Musalem, Jeffrey R. Schmid, and Christopher J. Waller. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, July 29–30, 2025. The meeting adjourned at 10:10 a.m. on June 18, 2025. By notation vote completed on May 27, 2025, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on May 6–7, 2025.