Committee participants continued their discussions related to their review of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy framework, with a focus on labor market dynamics and the FOMC's maximum employment goal. The staff briefed policymakers on the concept of maximum employment and related labor market indicators. They discussed conceptual benchmarks used in evaluating the position of the labor market relative to maximum employment and in ascertaining the interaction of maximum employment and price stability. They discussed a set of core labor market indicators used to help assess maximum employment, including the unemployment rate, job vacancies, the employment-to-population (EPOP) ratio, and the labor force participation rate (LFPR), and described the use of these indicators in assessing maximum employment during the pandemic-related recession and subsequent economic recovery. Participants generally supported the current description of maximum employment in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy as being not directly measurable and changing over time for reasons owing largely to nonmonetary factors. Participants acknowledged that it is difficult to assess maximum employment and that they have been well served by monitoring a wide range of indicators that can vary depending on labor market and economic conditions. They also reflected on how both the Committee and the public have interpreted the current description of maximum employment as a broad-based and inclusive goal. Participants reviewed the relationship between the dual-mandate goals and noted that those goals are not necessarily in conflict when both unemployment and inflation are low. Participants also discussed the implications of pursuing a strategy that seeks to mitigate shortfalls of employment from its maximum level, as described in the statement, and the ways the public has interpreted that approach since it was introduced into the statement. Participants indicated that they thought it would be appropriate to reconsider the shortfalls language. They judged that any strategy conveyed in the statement should be robust to a wide range of economic circumstances. They also considered the extent to which the current statement had effectively communicated the Committee's approach to achieving its longer-run goals, including the Committee's assessment of the appropriate policy responses in a period of a tight labor market. The manager turned first to a review of financial market developments. Over the intermeeting period, Treasury yields declined, equity prices fell, credit spreads widened, and the dollar depreciated. These moves appeared to reflect increased perceived risks—rather than a base case—of a significant deterioration of the U.S. outlook, as investors responded to both weaker-than-expected consumer spending and sentiment data as well as to developments in trade policy that had raised uncertainty. The manager observed that the implied average federal funds rate path from futures had shifted noticeably lower over the intermeeting period for horizons beyond the middle of this year. By contrast, the implied modal federal funds rate path from options was little changed, consistent with the interpretation that the baseline outlook had not changed materially. The Open Market Desk's Survey of Market Expectations told a similar story, as the median respondent's modal path for the federal funds rate in 2025 was little changed. The expected timing of rate cuts in 2026 and 2027 was brought forward about a quarter, but the expected terminal rate was unchanged. Survey respondents, however, attached noticeably higher probabilities to both lower gross domestic product (GDP) growth outcomes and higher inflation outcomes for 2025 compared with the January survey, consistent with a higher perceived risk of a negative supply shock this year. Nominal Treasury yields declined about 25 basis points, on net, over the period, led by decreases in real yields that reflected lower expected real rates and lower real term premiums. Near-term measures of inflation compensation rose amid trade-related developments, while at horizons beyond a year, forward measures of inflation compensation fell. Overall, both market- and survey-based measures suggested that inflation expectations remained well anchored. U.S. equity prices decreased notably, on net, over the intermeeting period, with particularly pronounced declines in the technology and cyclical sectors. While trade-related news had been the most prominent driver of equity price movements, the manager also noted that risk-management considerations may have led some levered investors to reduce long equity positions that were generating increasing losses, amplifying price movements. Option-implied volatility of broad equity prices increased over the intermeeting period to a level somewhat above its long-run average, and credit spreads widened, albeit to levels below historical averages. Asset price dynamics abroad were opposite to those in the U.S. Major foreign equity indexes, including those of the euro area and China, appreciated notably over the intermeeting period, while sovereign yields increased in many jurisdictions. The dollar depreciated against most major currencies, although currencies perceived as more sensitive to higher U.S. tariff rates, such as the Canadian dollar and those in emerging Asia, were relatively little changed. Overall, market participants characterized price action across global equities, global rates, and foreign exchange (FX) as consistent with some re-allocation away from trades that had been based on expectations for continued U.S. economic outperformance relative to global peers. The manager turned next to money market developments. Unsecured overnight rates remained stable over the intermeeting period, while rates in the repurchase agreement (repo) market varied notably, and some indicators suggested that conditions in that market had continued to tighten. The pass-through to repo rates of the 5 basis point technical adjustment to the overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) rate made in December appeared to have dissipated in February, even though repo rates had declined in mid-March as a result of a drop in bill issuance associated with the debt limit situation. Furthermore, the sensitivity of repo rates in the client-to-dealer segment to changes in transaction volumes had diminished relative to the spike observed at year-end but remained at levels above those that prevailed in late 2024. The sensitivity of repo rates to Treasury bill issuance had also increased in recent months. The manager interpreted these developments more as signs of continued normalization of the repo market than as a concern, but he also noted that, in the past, a tightening of the repo market had been a precursor to tighter reserve conditions. The manager observed that the ON RRP facility had reached a post-2021 low of under $59 billion in mid-February. Abstracting from the debt limit situation, with the ON RRP facility nearly depleted, portfolio runoff was likely to translate to lower reserves in the future. Several indicators of reserve conditions continued to point to reserves remaining abundant, but the reliability of the signals provided by those indicators was starting to be impaired by the debt limit situation, which was already affecting the Federal Reserve's liabilities. The Treasury General Account (TGA) had declined nearly $300 billion since the debt issuance suspension period was declared in January. As a result, reserves were about $180 billion higher; ON RRP balances had also increased somewhat. Reserves were likely to continue to grow, except for periods around tax dates, until a resolution of the debt limit situation and then drop quickly as the TGA is rebuilt. In that scenario, reserves could potentially reach levels below those viewed by the Committee as appropriate without market indicators being able to provide much advance warning. The manager noted that either pausing or sufficiently slowing runoff would provide meaningful insurance against that possibility. More generally, the manager also noted that slowing runoff would also be an effective way—consistent with the Committee's plans—of addressing the risks posed by a continued tightening of repo market conditions and a nearly depleted ON RRP facility. Desk survey results indicated that more than half of the respondents expected the Committee to either pause or slow runoff as its next move, with a majority of those leaning toward a slowdown. Many respondents also expected the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio to consist, in the long run, of Treasury securities only and to match the maturity composition of Treasury debt outstanding. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account during the intermeeting period. The information available at the time of the meeting indicated that real GDP was expanding at a solid pace. The unemployment rate had stabilized at a relatively low level since the middle of last year. Consumer price inflation remained somewhat elevated. Total consumer price inflation—as measured by the 12-month change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE)—was estimated by the staff to have been 2.5 percent in February, based on the consumer and producer price indexes. Core PCE price inflation, which excludes changes in consumer energy prices and many consumer food prices, was estimated to have been 2.8 percent in February. Both total and core inflation were little changed relative to their year-earlier levels. Recent data indicated that labor market conditions remained solid and had stabilized. The unemployment rate was 4.1 percent in February, the same as in December. The EPOP ratio and the LFPR edged down, on balance, over January and February. Average monthly gains for total nonfarm payrolls over January and February were solid but somewhat lower than their pace in the second half of last year. The ratio of job vacancies to unemployed workers was 1.1 in February, a bit below its average over 2019, and the quits rate edged up to 2.1 percent in January but was still well below its 2019 average. The total employment cost index for private-sector workers rose 3.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December, well below its year-earlier level. Average hourly earnings for all employees rose 4.0 percent over the 12 months ending in February, little changed from a year ago. Real GDP growth was estimated to have been 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, and available data suggested that real GDP was still rising at a solid, though somewhat slower, pace in the first quarter. Real PCE declined in January, but retail sales and sales of light motor vehicles bounced back in February. In contrast to most of the data in hand used to estimate real GDP growth, many indicators of consumer and business sentiment had turned more downbeat over the past two months. Export growth was modest in January. Import growth was strong relative to its fourth-quarter pace, consistent with reports that some U.S. importers were stocking up ahead of prospective tariff increases. Economic growth abroad slowed to a subdued pace in the fourth quarter, in part because of weak manufacturing activity in Europe and Mexico. Recent export data from abroad and some other indicators suggested that foreign economic growth recovered modestly at the start of this year. Other indicators, however, pointed to weak momentum in manufacturing production, especially in Canada and Mexico. In China, the authorities announced a target of around 5 percent for GDP growth in 2025, supported by new fiscal policy measures. Inflation abroad continued to remain near central bank targets in most foreign economies. In advanced foreign economies (AFEs), total inflation ticked up, in part because of a short-lived spike in oil prices early in the year, but core inflation continued to cool as wage growth slowed. In China, January and February inflation data suggested continued weak underlying price pressures. By contrast, in some Latin American countries, most notably Brazil, inflation picked up further, in part driven by past currency depreciation. Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, and the European Central Bank in the AFEs, and the Bank of Korea and the Bank of Mexico in the emerging market economies. By contrast, the Central Bank of Brazil increased its policy rate amid continued inflation concerns. Foreign central banks were increasingly noting that elevated uncertainty about trade policies was clouding their economic outlooks. The staff projection for real GDP growth was weaker than the one prepared for the January meeting, as incoming data for aggregate spending were below expectations and the support from financial conditions had lessened. The unemployment rate was forecast to edge up but remain close to the staff's estimate of its natural rate. The staff's inflation projection was a little higher for this year than the one prepared for the previous meeting, primarily reflecting higher-than-expected incoming data. Participants observed that available data pointed to an economy that continued to grow at a solid pace and labor market conditions that remained broadly balanced, but that inflation stayed somewhat elevated. Participants generally noted the high degree of uncertainty facing the economy. Participants judged that labor market conditions remained broadly in balance. Members agreed that in considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a wide range of information, including readings on labor market conditions, inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and financial and international developments. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate. In support of its goals, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4-1/4 to 4-1/2 percent. The Committee will continue reducing its holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities. Beginning in April, the Committee will slow the pace of decline of its securities holdings by reducing the monthly redemption cap on Treasury securities from $25 billion to $5 billion. The Committee is strongly committed to supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to its 2 percent objective. In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook. Voting against this action: Christopher J. Waller. Governor Waller preferred no change in the federal funds target range and continuing the pace of decline in securities holdings in place at the time of the vote.