The Committee voted unanimously to approve with minor revisions the Standing Repurchase Agreement Facility Resolution, as shown below. All but one member of the Committee voted to approve with minor revisions the Standing FIMA Repurchase Agreement Resolution. Governor Bowman abstained from the vote on the Standing FIMA Repurchase Agreement Resolution. The resolutions were modified to remove references to a specific facility rate to allow for normal adjustment in the facility rates when the Committee makes changes to the target range for the federal funds rate. In the Committee's annual reconsideration of the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, all participants supported the statement as written, and the Committee voted unanimously to reaffirm without revision. The Chair proposed that the Committee vote on a final draft as soon in the intermeeting period as possible. The Committee judges that the level of the federal funds rate consistent with maximum employment and price stability over the longer run has declined relative to its historical average. The Committee is prepared to use its full range of tools to achieve its maximum employment and price stability goals. The Committee intends to review these principles and to make adjustments as appropriate at its annual organizational meeting each January. The manager turned first to a review of domestic financial market developments over the intermeeting period. Expectations for tighter monetary policy ahead, as well as an easing of COVID-related concerns, were cited as contributing to the increase in yields. The S&P 500 index declined around 5 percent, with sharp moves toward the end of the period, reportedly prompted by concerns about the implications of a tighter path of monetary policy and rising geopolitical risks. Policymaker communications were perceived as pointing to an earlier and faster removal of accommodation than market participants had previously expected. Against this backdrop, respondents to the Open Market Desk's surveys of primary dealers and market participants almost uniformly projected that the Federal Reserve's net asset purchases would end by mid-March. The median survey projection for the commencement of balance sheet runoff shifted into the third quarter of this year, roughly a year and a half sooner than in the December surveys. Most survey respondents also expected the portfolio to decline at a significantly faster pace than they did in December. Expectations for the path of the federal funds rate shifted toward earlier rate increases, and interest rate futures priced in an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate at the March FOMC meeting. On average, respondents to the Desk surveys assigned a roughly 70 percent probability to an increase in the target range in March. The expected path of the federal funds rate in the Desk surveys and derived from interest rate futures also steepened over the period. The median survey projection for the most likely level of the target range at the end of 2024 was about 2 percent, similar to December. Nonetheless, survey respondents attached significant probability to outcomes in which the target range moved up more than indicated by the projected modal path. Changing views about the likely path of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet following the release of the December FOMC minutes seemed to affect longer-term yields. Far forward real yields moved higher over the period, with much of the increase following the release of the minutes for the December FOMC meeting. In addition, agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) spreads widened notably after having been stable at low levels for the past year, reportedly driven by expectations for an earlier and faster runoff of agency MBS than had been expected. The manager turned next to a discussion of international financial market developments. Sovereign yields increased across advanced foreign economies (AFEs), reportedly driven by receding concerns about the O. The expected path for the federal funds rate over the next few years—implied by a straight read of overnight index swap quotes—rose notably since the December FOMC meeting, apparently reflecting less-accommodative-than-expected FOMC communications and an easing of concerns around the economic effects of the Omicron variant. Participants continued their discussion of topics associated with potential adjustments in the Committee's policy tools that may be appropriate to support the achievement of sustained strong labor market conditions and a return of inflation to levels consistent with the Committee's longer-run 2 percent objective under a wide range of circumstances. Participants agreed that it was appropriate at this time for the Committee to publish its high-level principles for reducing the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. The Committee views changes in the target range for the federal funds rate as its primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy. The Committee intends to reduce the Federal Reserve's securities holdings over time in a predictable manner primarily by adjusting the amounts reinvested of principal payments received from securities held in the System Open Market Account (SOMA). Participants noted that the level of securities holdings consistent with implementing monetary policy efficiently and effectively in an ample reserves regime was uncertain and probably would remain so. The unemployment rate declined from 4.2 percent in November to 3.9 percent in December. Inflation readings remained high, and various indicators suggested that inflationary pressures had broadened over the second half of 2021. The U.S. international trade deficit widened at the end of last year. Members agreed to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent. Members expected that it would soon be appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate. Members agreed to continue to reduce the monthly pace of the Committee's net asset purchases, bringing them to an end in early March. Beginning in February, the Committee would increase its holdings of Treasury securities by at least $20 billion per month and of agency MBS by at least $10 billion per month. Members agreed to remove the opening sentence from previous postmeeting statements regarding using the Federal Reserve's full range of tools to support the U.S. economy. The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate of 2 percent over the longer run. The Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee expects it will soon be appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate. The Committee decided to continue to reduce the monthly pace of its net asset purchases, bringing them to an end in early March. The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals.