The Governing Council today decided to keep the three key ECB interest rates unchanged. We are determined to ensure that inflation stabilises at our two per cent target in the medium term. We will follow a data-dependent and meeting-by-meeting approach to determining the appropriate monetary policy stance. Our interest rate decisions will be based on our assessment of the inflation outlook and the risks surrounding it, in light of the incoming economic and financial data, as well as the dynamics of underlying inflation and the strength of monetary policy transmission. We are not pre-committing to a particular rate path. The economy grew by 0.7 per cent in cumulative terms over the first half of the year, on account of the resilience in domestic demand. The quarterly pattern showed stronger growth in the first quarter and weaker growth in the second quarter, partly reflecting an initial frontloading of international trade ahead of expected tariff increases and then a reversal of that effect. Survey indicators suggest that both manufacturing and services continue to grow, signalling some positive underlying momentum in the economy. Even if demand for labour is softening, the labour market remains a source of strength, with the unemployment rate at 6.2 per cent in July. Annual inflation remains close to our target, edging up to 2.1 per cent in August from 2.0 per cent in July. Indicators of underlying inflation remain consistent with our two per cent medium-term target. Risks to economic growth have become more balanced. The outlook for inflation remains more uncertain than usual, as a result of the still volatile global trade policy environment. We stand ready to adjust all of our instruments within our mandate to ensure that inflation stabilises sustainably at our medium-term target and to preserve the smooth functioning of monetary policy transmission. The disinflationary process is over, and I’m referring here to the causes for inflation that we have experienced in the last few quarters. We continue to be in a good place, but we are not on a predetermined path and we will take stock, meeting-by-meeting, to look at all the data. We had a unanimous decision by the Governing Council today to leave all three interest rates unchanged.